<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 58 - COMMERCIAL COURT</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 58 - COMMERCIAL COURT</h1>
<div>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Part and interpretation</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.1</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Part applies to claims in the Commercial Court of the Queen&#39;s Bench Division.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Part and Practice Direction 58, ‘commercial claim’ means any claim arising out of the transaction of trade and commerce and includes any claim relating to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a business document or contract;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the export or import of goods;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the carriage of goods by land, sea, air or pipeline;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">the exploitation of oil and gas reserves or other natural resources;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">insurance and re-insurance;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(f)</span> <span class="text">banking and financial services;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(g)</span> <span class="text">the operation of markets and exchanges;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(h)</span> <span class="text">the purchase and sale of commodities;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the construction of ships;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(j)</span> <span class="text">business agency; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(k)</span> <span class="text">arbitration.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Specialist list</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.2</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The commercial list is a specialist list for claims proceeding in the Commercial Court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">One of the judges of the Commercial Court shall be in charge of the commercial list.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Application of the Civil Procedure Rules</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.3</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">These Rules and their practice directions apply to claims in the commercial list unless this Part or a practice direction provides otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Proceedings in the commercial list</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.4</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A commercial claim may be started in the commercial list.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Rule 30.5 applies to claims in the commercial list, except that a Commercial Court judge may order a claim to be transferred to any other specialist list.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Rule 30.5(3) provides that an application for the transfer of proceedings to or from a specialist list must be made to a judge dealing with claims in that list.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Claim form and particulars of claim</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.5</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">If, in a Part 7 claim, particulars of claim are not contained in or served with the claim form –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim form must state that, if an acknowledgment of service is filed which indicates an intention to defend the claim, particulars of claim will follow;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">when the claim form is served, it must be accompanied by the documents specified in rule 7.8(1);</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the claimant must serve particulars of claim within 28 days of the filing of an acknowledgment of service which indicates an intention to defend; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">rule 7.4(2) does not apply.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A statement of value is not required to be included in the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">If the claimant is claiming interest, he must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">include a statement to that effect; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">give the details set out in rule 16.4(2),</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">in both the claim form and the particulars of claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Acknowledgment of service</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.6</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A defendant must file an acknowledgment of service in every case.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Unless paragraph (3) applies, the period for filing an acknowledgment of service is 14 days after service of the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where the claim form is served out of the jurisdiction, or on the agent of a defendant who is overseas, the time periods provided by rules 6.12(3), 6.35 and 6.37(5) apply after service of the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Disputing the court&#39;s jurisdiction</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.7</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Part 11 applies to claims in the commercial list with the modifications set out in this rule.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">An application under rule 11(1) must be made within 28 days after filing an acknowledgment of service.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">If the defendant files an acknowledgment of service indicating an intention to dispute the court&#39;s jurisdiction, the claimant need not serve particulars of claim before the hearing of the application.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Default judgment</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.8</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">If, in a Part 7 claim in the commercial list, a defendant fails to file an acknowledgment of service, the claimant need not serve particulars of claim before he may obtain or apply for default judgment in accordance with Part 12.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Rule 12.6(1) applies with the modification that paragraph (a) shall be read as if it referred to the claim form instead of the particulars of claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Admissions</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.9</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Rule 14.5 does not apply to claims in the commercial list.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">If the defendant admits part of a claim for a specified amount of money, the claimant may apply under rule 14.3 for judgment on the admission.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Rule 14.14(1) applies with the modification that paragraph (a) shall be read as if it referred to the claim form instead of the particulars of claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Defence and Reply</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.10</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Part 15 (defence and reply) applies to claims in the commercial list with the modification to rule 15.8 that the claimant must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">file any reply to a defence; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">serve it on all other parties,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">within 21 days after service of the defence.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Rule 6.35 (in relation to the period for filing a defence where the claim form is served out of the jurisdiction) applies to claims in the commercial list, except that if the particulars of claim are served after the defendant has filed an acknowledgment of service the period for filing a defence is 28 days from service of the particulars of claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Statements of case</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.11</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">The court may at any time before or after the issue of the claim form order a claim in the commercial list to proceed without the filing or service of statements of case.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Part 8 claims</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.12</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Part 8 applies to claims in the commercial list, with the modification that a defendant to a Part 8 claim who wishes to rely on written evidence must file and serve it within 28 days after filing an acknowledgment of service.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Case management</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.13</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">All proceedings in the commercial list are treated as being allocated to the multi-track and Part 26 does not apply.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The following parts only of Part 29 apply –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">rule 29.3(2) (legal representative to attend case management conferences and pre-trial reviews);</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">rule 29.5 (variation of case management timetable) with the exception of rule 29.5(1)(c).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">As soon as practicable the court will hold a case management conference which must be fixed in accordance with Practice Direction 58.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">At the case management conference or at any hearing at which the parties are represented the court may give such directions for the management of the case as it considers appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Disclosure – ships papers</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.14</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">If, in proceedings relating to a marine insurance policy, the underwriters apply for specific disclosure under rule 31.12, the court may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">order a party to produce all the ships papers; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">require that party to use his best endeavours to obtain and disclose documents which are not or have not been in his control.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">An order under this rule may be made at any stage of the proceedings and on such terms, if any, as to staying the proceedings or otherwise, as the court thinks fit.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Judgments and orders</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">58.15</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Except for orders made by the court on its own initiative and unless the court orders otherwise, every judgment or order will be drawn up by the parties, and rule 40.3 is modified accordingly.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">An application for a consent order must include a draft of the proposed order signed on behalf of all the parties to whom it relates.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Rule 40.6 (consent judgments and orders) does not apply.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>