<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 69 - COURT'S POWER TO APPOINT A RECEIVER</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 69 - COURT'S POWER TO APPOINT A RECEIVER</h1>
<div>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Part</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.1</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Part contains provisions about the court&#39;s power to appoint a receiver.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Part ‘receiver’ includes a manager.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Court&#39;s power to appoint receiver</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.2</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The court may appoint a receiver –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">before proceedings have started;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">in existing proceedings; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">on or after judgment.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A receiver must be an individual.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The court may at any time –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">terminate the appointment of a receiver; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">appoint another receiver in his place.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Practice Direction 69 describes the powers for the court to appoint a receiver.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">How to apply for the appointment of a receiver</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.3</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">An application for the appointment of a receiver –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may be made without notice ; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">must be supported by written evidence.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Service of order appointing receiver</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.4</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">An order appointing a receiver must be served by the party who applied for it on –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the person appointed as receiver;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">unless the court orders otherwise, every other party to the proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">such other persons as the court may direct.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Security</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.5</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The court may direct that before a receiver begins to act or within a specified time he must either –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">give such security as the court may determine; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">file and serve on all parties to the proceedings evidence that he already has in force sufficient security,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">to cover his liability for his acts and omissions as a receiver.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The court may terminate the appointment of the receiver if he fails to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">give the security; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">satisfy the court as to the security he has in force,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">by the date specified.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Receiver&#39;s application for directions</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.6</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The receiver may apply to the court at any time for directions to assist him in carrying out his function as a receiver.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The court, when it gives directions, may also direct the receiver to serve on any person –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the directions; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the application for directions.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Practice Direction 69 makes provision for the form of applications by, and directions to, a receiver.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Receiver&#39;s remuneration</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.7</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A receiver may only charge for his services if the court –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">so directs; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">specifies the basis on which the receiver is to be remunerated.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The court may specify –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">who is to be responsible for paying the receiver; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the fund or property from which the receiver is to recover his remuneration.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">If the court directs that the amount of a receiver&#39;s remuneration is to be determined by the court –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the receiver may not recover any remuneration for his services without a determination by the court; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the receiver or any party may apply at any time for such a determination to take place.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">Unless the court orders otherwise, in determining the remuneration of a receiver the court shall award such sum as is reasonable and proportionate in all the circumstances and which takes into account –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the time properly given by him and his staff to the receivership;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the complexity of the receivership;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">any responsibility of an exceptional kind or degree which falls on the receiver in consequence of the receivership;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">the effectiveness with which the receiver appears to be carrying out, or to have carried out, his duties; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">the value and nature of the subject matter of the receivership.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">The court may refer the determination of a receiver&#39;s remuneration to a costs judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Accounts</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.8</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The court may order a receiver to prepare and serve accounts.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Practice Direction 69 contains provisions about directions for the preparation and service of accounts.)</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A party served with such accounts may apply for an order permitting him to inspect any document in the possession of the receiver relevant to those accounts.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Any party may, within 14 days of being served with the accounts, serve notice on the receiver –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">specifying any item in the accounts to which he objects;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">giving the reason for such objection; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">requiring the receiver, within 14 days of receipt of the notice, either –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">to notify all the parties who were served with the accounts that he accepts the objection; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">if he does not accept the objection, to apply for an examination of the accounts in relation to the contested item.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">When the receiver applies for the examination of the accounts he must at the same time file –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the accounts; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a copy of the notice served on him under this rule.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">If the receiver fails to comply with paragraph (3)(c) of this rule, any party may apply to the court for an examination of the accounts in relation to the contested item.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">At the conclusion of its examination of the accounts the court will certify the result.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Practice Direction 40A provides for inquiries into accounts.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Non-compliance by receiver</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.9</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">If a receiver fails to comply with any rule, practice direction or direction of the court the court may order him to attend a hearing to explain his non-compliance.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">At the hearing the court may make any order it considers appropriate, including –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">terminating the appointment of the receiver;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">reducing the receiver&#39;s remuneration or disallowing it altogether; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">ordering the receiver to pay the costs of any party.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the court has ordered a receiver to pay a sum of money into court; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the receiver has failed to do so,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">the court may order him to pay interest on that sum for the time he is in default at such rate as it considers appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Application for discharge of receiver</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.10</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A receiver or any party may apply for the receiver to be discharged on completion of his duties.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The application notice must be served on the persons who were required under rule 69.4 to be served with the order appointing the receiver.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Order discharging or terminating appointment of receiver</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">69.11</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An order discharging or terminating the appointment of a receiver may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">require him to pay into court any money held by him; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">specify the person to whom he must pay any money or transfer any assets still in his possession; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">make provision for the discharge or cancellation of any guarantee given by the receiver as security.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The order must be served on the persons who were required under rule 69.4 to be served with the order appointing the receiver.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>