<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 68 – REFERENCES TO THE EUROPEAN COURT</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 68 – REFERENCES TO THE EUROPEAN COURT</h1>
<div>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText">This Practice Direction supplements CPR Part 68</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Wording of references</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the court intends to refer a question to the European Court it may direct the parties to produce a draft of the reference but responsibility for the terms of the reference lies with the court making the reference and not with the parties.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The reference should identify as clearly and succinctly as possible the question on which the court seeks the ruling of the European Court. In choosing the wording of the reference, it should be remembered that it will need to be translated into many other languages.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court will incorporate the reference as a schedule to its order. The schedule must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">give the full name of the referring court;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">identify the parties;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">summarise the nature and history of the proceedings, including the salient facts, indicating whether these are proved or admitted or assumed;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">set out the relevant rules of national law;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">summarise the relevant contentions of the parties;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">explain why a ruling of the European Court is sought;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">identify the provisions of Community law which the European Court is being requested to interpret;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(8)</span> <span class="text">state the question on which a ruling of the European Court is sought; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(9)</span> <span class="text">state any opinion on the answer to the question that may have been expressed by the court in the course of delivering judgment.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If some of these matters are conveniently set out in a judgment, the relevant passages should be summarised succinctly. If it is not possible to produce such a summary, only those passages that contain information of the kind referred to in paragraph 1.3 should be cited.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The reference should not exceed 20 pages in length.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Request to apply the urgent preliminary ruling procedure</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1A.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The request to the European Court to apply its urgent preliminary ruling procedure must set out –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the matters of fact and law which establish the urgency;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the reasons why the urgent preliminary ruling procedure applies; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">in so far as possible, the court’s view on the answer to the question referred to the European Court for a preliminary ruling.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Transmission to the European Court</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The order containing the reference, and where relevant any request to the European Court to apply its urgent preliminary ruling procedure, must be sent to the Senior Master, Room E101, Queen’s Bench Division, Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London, WC2A 2LL, for onward transmission to the European Court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The relevant court file must also be sent to the Senior Master at the above address.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">European Court Information Note</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">There are annexed to this Practice Direction –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">an Information Note issued by the European Court; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">a supplement to the Information Note following the implementation of the urgent ruling procedure applicable to references concerning the area of freedom, security and justice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">ANNEX 1</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id6484022" title="pd68 ann1 pdf" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd68_pdf_eps/pd68_annex1.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink" name="id6484022">Information Note: References from National Courts for a Preliminary Ruling (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">ANNEX 2</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id6484026" title="pd68 ann2 pdf" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd68_pdf_eps/pd68_annex2.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink" name="id6484026">Information Note Supplement: Urgent Preliminary Ruling Procedure (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>