<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 61 - ADMIRALTY CLAIMS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 61 - ADMIRALTY CLAIMS</h1>
<div>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope and interpretation</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.1</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Part applies to admiralty claims.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Part –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">‘admiralty claim’ means a claim within the Admiralty jurisdiction of the High Court as set out in section 20 of the Supreme Court Act 1981<sup><a name="backf1000" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#f1000" class="anchor" id="backf1000">1</a></sup>;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">‘the Admiralty Court’ means the Admiralty Court of the Queen&#39;s Bench Division of the High Court of Justice;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">‘claim in rem’ means a claim in an admiralty action in rem;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">‘collision claim’ means a claim within section 20(3)(b) of the Supreme Court Act 1981;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">‘limitation claim’ means a claim under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995<sup><a name="backf1001" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#f1001" class="anchor" id="backf1001">2</a></sup> for the limitation of liability in connection with a ship or other property;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(f)</span> <span class="text">‘salvage claim’ means a claim –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">for or in the nature of salvage;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">for special compensation under Article 14 of Schedule 11 to the Merchant Shipping Act 1995;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">for the apportionment of salvage; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iv)</span> <span class="text">arising out of or connected with any contract for salvage services;</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(g)</span> <span class="text">‘caution against arrest’ means a caution entered in the Register under rule 61.7;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(h)</span> <span class="text">‘caution against release’ means a caution entered in the Register under rule 61.8;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">‘the Register’ means the Register of cautions against arrest and release which is open to inspection as provided by Practice Direction 61;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(j)</span> <span class="text">‘the Marshal’ means the Admiralty Marshal;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(k)</span> <span class="text">‘ship’ includes any vessel used in navigation; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(l)</span> <span class="text">‘the Registrar’ means the Queen&#39;s Bench Master with responsibility for Admiralty claims.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Part 58 (Commercial Court) applies to claims in the Admiralty Court except where this Part provides otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The Registrar has all the powers of the Admiralty judge except where a rule or practice direction provides otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Admiralty claims</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.2</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The following claims must be started in the Admiralty Court –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a claim –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">in rem;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">for damage done by a ship;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">concerning the ownership of a ship;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iv)</span> <span class="text">under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(v)</span> <span class="text">for loss of life or personal injury specified in section 20(2)(f) of the Supreme Court Act 1981;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(vi)</span> <span class="text">by a master or member of a crew for wages;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(vii)</span> <span class="text">in the nature of towage; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(viii)</span> <span class="text">in the nature of pilotage;</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a collision claim;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">a limitation claim; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">a salvage claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Any other admiralty claim may be started in the Admiralty Court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Rule 30.5 applies to claims in the Admiralty Court except that the Admiralty Court may order the transfer of a claim to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the Commercial list;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a Mercantile Court;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the Mercantile list at the Central London County Court; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">any other appropriate court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Claims in rem</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.3</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This rule applies to claims in rem.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A claim in rem is started by the issue of an in rem claim form as set out in Practice Direction 61.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Subject to rule 61.4, the particulars of claim must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">be contained in or served with the claim form; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">be served on the defendant by the claimant within 75 days after service of the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">An acknowledgment of service must be filed within 14 days after service of the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">The claim form must be served –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in accordance with Practice Direction 61; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">within 12 months after the date of issue and rules 7.5 and 7.6 are modified accordingly.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">If a claim form has been issued (whether served or not), any person who wishes to defend the claim may file an acknowledgment of service.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Special provisions relating to collision claims</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.4</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This rule applies to collision claims.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A claim form need not contain or be followed by particulars of claim and rule 7.4 does not apply.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">An acknowledgment of service must be filed.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">A party who wishes to dispute the court&#39;s jurisdiction must make an application under Part 11 within 2 months after filing his acknowledgment of service.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">Every party must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">within 2 months after the defendant files the acknowledgment of service; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where the defendant applies under Part 11, within 2 months after the defendant files the further acknowledgment of service,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">file at the court a completed collision statement of case in the form specified in Practice Direction 61.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">A collision statement of case must be –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in the form set out in Practice Direction 61; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">verified by a statement of truth.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">A claim form in a collision claim may not be served out of the jurisdiction unless –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the case falls within section 22(2)(a), (b) or (c) of the Supreme Court Act 1981<sup><a name="backf1002" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#f1002" class="anchor" id="backf1002">3</a></sup>; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the defendant has submitted to or agreed to submit to the jurisdiction; and</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">the court gives permission in accordance with Section IV of Part 6.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(8)</span> <span class="text">Where permission to serve a claim form out of the jurisdiction is given, the court will specify the period within which the defendant may file an acknowledgment of service and, where appropriate, a collision statement of case.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(9)</span> <span class="text">Where, in a collision claim in rem (‘the original claim’) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">a Part 20 claim; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">a cross claim in rem</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">arising out of the same collision or occurrence is made; and</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the party bringing the original claim has caused the arrest of a ship or has obtained security in order to prevent such arrest; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">the party bringing the Part 20 claim or cross claim is unable to arrest a ship or otherwise obtain security,</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">the party bringing the Part 20 claim or cross claim may apply to the court to stay the original claim until sufficient security is given to satisfy any judgment that may be given in favour of that party.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(10)</span> <span class="text">The consequences set out in paragraph (11) apply where a party to a claim to establish liability for a collision claim (other than a claim for loss of life or personal injury) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">makes an offer to settle in the form set out in paragraph (12) not less than 21 days before the start of the trial;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">that offer is not accepted; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the maker of the offer obtains at trial an apportionment equal to or more favourable than his offer.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(11)</span> <span class="text">Where paragraph (10) applies the parties will, unless the court considers it unjust, be entitled to the following costs –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the maker of the offer will be entitled to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">all his costs from 21 days after the offer was made; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">his costs before then in the percentage to which he would have been entitled had the offer been accepted; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">all other parties to whom the offer was made –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">will be entitled to their costs up to 21 days after the offer was made in the percentage to which they would have been entitled had the offer been accepted; but</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">will not be entitled to their costs thereafter.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(12)</span> <span class="text">An offer under paragraph (10) must be in writing and must contain –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">an offer to settle liability at stated percentages;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">an offer to pay costs in accordance with the same percentages;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">a term that the offer remain open for 21 days after the date it is made; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">a term that, unless the court orders otherwise, on expiry of that period the offer remains open on the same terms except that the offeree should pay all the costs from that date until acceptance.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Arrest</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.5</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">In a claim in rem –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a claimant; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a judgment creditor</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">may apply to have the property proceeded against arrested.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Practice Direction 61 sets out the procedure for applying for arrest.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">A party making an application for arrest must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">request a search to be made in the Register before the warrant is issued to determine whether there is a caution against arrest in force with respect to that property; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">file a declaration in the form set out in Practice Direction 61.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">A warrant of arrest may not be issued as of right in the case of property in respect of which the beneficial ownership, as a result of a sale or disposal by any court in any jurisdiction exercising admiralty jurisdiction in rem, has changed since the claim form was issued.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">A warrant of arrest may not be issued against a ship owned by a State where by any convention or treaty, the United Kingdom has undertaken to minimise the possibility of arrest of ships of that State until –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">notice in the form set out in Practice Direction 61 has been served on a consular officer at the consular office of that State in London or the port at which it is intended to arrest the ship; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a copy of that notice is attached to any declaration under paragraph (3)(b).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">Except –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">with the permission of the court; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where notice has been given under paragraph (5),</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">a warrant of arrest may not be issued in a claim in rem against a foreign ship belonging to a port of a State in respect of which an order in council has been made under section 4 of the Consular Relations Act 1968<sup><a name="backf1003" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#f1003" class="anchor" id="backf1003">4</a></sup>, until the expiration of 2 weeks from appropriate notice to the consul.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">A warrant of arrest is valid for 12 months but may only be executed if the claim form –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">has been served; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">remains valid for service at the date of execution.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(8)</span> <span class="text">Property may only be arrested by the Marshal or his substitute.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(9)</span> <span class="text">Property under arrest –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may not be moved unless the court orders otherwise; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">may be immobilised or prevented from sailing in such manner as the Marshal may consider appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(10)</span> <span class="text">Where an in rem claim form has been issued and security sought, any person who has filed an acknowledgment of service may apply for an order specifying the amount and form of security to be provided.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Security in claim in rem</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.6</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This rule applies if, in a claim in rem, security has been given to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">obtain the release of property under arrest; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">prevent the arrest of property.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The court may order that the –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">amount of security be reduced and may stay the claim until the order is complied with; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">claimant may arrest or re-arrest the property proceeded against to obtain further security.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The court may not make an order under paragraph (2)(b) if the total security to be provided would exceed the value of the property at the time –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">of the original arrest; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">security was first given (if the property was not arrested).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Cautions against arrest</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.7</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Any person may file a request for a caution against arrest.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">When a request under paragraph (1) is filed the court will enter the caution in the Register if the request is in the form set out in Practice Direction 61 and –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the person filing the request undertakes –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">to file an acknowledgment of service; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">to give sufficient security to satisfy the claim with interest and costs; or</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where the person filing the request has constituted a limitation fund in accordance with Article 11 of the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims 1976<sup><a name="backf1004" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#f1004" class="anchor" id="backf1004">5</a></sup> he –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">states that such a fund has been constituted; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">undertakes that the claimant will acknowledge service of the claim form by which any claim may be begun against the property described in the request.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">A caution against arrest –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">is valid for 12 months after the date it is entered in the Register; but</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">may be renewed for a further 12 months by filing a further request.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">Paragraphs (1) and (2) apply to a further request under paragraph (3)(b).</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">Property may be arrested if a caution against arrest has been entered in the Register but the court may order that –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the arrest be discharged; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the party procuring the arrest pays compensation to the owner of or other persons interested in the arrested property.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Release and cautions against release</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.8</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where property is under arrest –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">an in rem claim form may be served upon it; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">it may be arrested by any other person claiming to have an in rem claim against it.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Any person who –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">claims to have an in rem right against any property under arrest; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">wishes to be given notice of any application in respect of that property or its proceeds of sale,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">may file a request for a caution against release in the form set out in Practice Direction 61.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">When a request under paragraph (2) is filed, a caution against release will be entered in the Register.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">Property will be released from arrest if –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">it is sold by the court;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the court orders release on an application made by any party;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the arresting party; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">all persons who have entered cautions against release</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">file a request for release in the form set out in Practice Direction 61; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">any party files –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">a request for release in the form set out in Practice Direction 61 (containing an undertaking); and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">consents to the release of the arresting party and all persons who have entered cautions against release.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">Where the release of any property is delayed by the entry of a caution against release under this rule any person who has an interest in the property may apply for an order that the person who entered the caution pay damages for losses suffered by the applicant because of the delay.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">The court may not make an order under paragraph (5) if satisfied that there was good reason to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">request the entry of; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">maintain</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">the caution.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">Any person –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">interested in property under arrest or in the proceeds of sale of such property; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">whose interests are affected by any order sought or made,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">may be made a party to any claim in rem against the property or proceeds of sale.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(8)</span> <span class="text">Where –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">a ship is not under arrest but cargo on board her is; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">a ship is under arrest but cargo on board her is not; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">persons interested in the ship or cargo wish to discharge the cargo,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">they may, without being made parties, request the Marshal to authorise steps to discharge the cargo.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(9)</span> <span class="text">If –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the Marshal considers a request under paragraph (8) reasonable; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the applicant gives an undertaking in writing acceptable to the Marshal to pay –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">his fees; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">all expenses to be incurred by him or on his behalf</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">on demand,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">the Marshal will apply to the court for an order to permit the discharge of the cargo.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(10)</span> <span class="text">Where persons interested in the ship or cargo are unable or unwilling to give an undertaking as referred to in paragraph (9)(b), they may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">be made parties to the claim; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">apply to the court for an order for –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">discharge of the cargo; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">directions as to the fees and expenses of the Marshal with regard to the discharge and storage of the cargo.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Judgment in default</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.9</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">In a claim in rem (other than a collision claim) the claimant may obtain judgment in default of –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">an acknowledgment of service only if –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the defendant has not filed an acknowledgment of service; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">the time for doing so set out in rule 61.3(4) has expired; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">defence only if –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">a defence has not been filed; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">the relevant time limit for doing so has expired.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In a collision claim, a party who has filed a collision statement of case within the time specified by rule 61.4(5) may obtain judgment in default of a collision statement of case only if –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the party against whom judgment is sought has not filed a collision statement of case; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the time for doing so set out in rule 61.4(5) has expired.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">An application for judgment in default –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">under paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) in an in rem claim must be made by filing –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">an application notice as set out in Practice Direction 61;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">a certificate proving service of the claim form; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">evidence proving the claim to the satisfaction of the court; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">under paragraph (2) in any other claim must be made in accordance with Part 12 with any necessary modifications.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">An application notice seeking judgment in default and, unless the court orders otherwise, all evidence in support, must be served on all persons who have entered cautions against release on the Register.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">The court may set aside or vary any judgment in default entered under this rule.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">The claimant may apply to the court for judgment against a party at whose instance a notice against arrest was entered where –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim form has been served on that party;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the sum claimed in the claim form does not exceed the amount specified in the undertaking given by that party in accordance with rule 61.7(2)(a)(ii); and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">that party has not fulfilled that undertaking within 14 days after service on him of the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Sale by the court, priorities and payment out</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.10</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application for an order for the survey, appraisement or sale of a ship may be made in a claim in rem at any stage by any party.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">If the court makes an order for sale, it may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">set a time within which notice of claims against the proceeds of sale must be filed; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the time and manner in which such notice must be advertised.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Any party with a judgment against the property or proceeds of sale may at any time after the time referred to in paragraph (2) apply to the court for the determination of priorities.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">An application notice under paragraph (3) must be served on all persons who have filed a claim against the property.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">Payment out of the proceeds of sale will be made only to judgment creditors and –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in accordance with the determination of priorities; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">as the court orders.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Limitation claims</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.11</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This rule applies to limitation claims.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A claim is started by the issue of a limitation claim form as set out in Practice Direction 61.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">claimant; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">at least one defendant</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">must be named in the claim form, but all other defendants may be described.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The claim form –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">must be served on all named defendants and any other defendant who requests service upon him; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">may be served on any other defendant.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">The claim form may not be served out of the jurisdiction unless –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim falls within section 22(2)(a), (b) or (c) of the Supreme Court Act 1981<sup><a name="backf1005" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#f1005" class="anchor" id="backf1005">6</a></sup>;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the defendant has submitted to or agreed to submit to the jurisdiction of the court; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the Admiralty Court has jurisdiction over the claim under any applicable Convention; and</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">the court grants permission in accordance with Section IV of Part 6.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">An acknowledgment of service is not required.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">Every defendant upon whom a claim form is served must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">within 28 days of service file –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">a defence; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">a notice that the defendant admits the right of the claimant to limit liability; or</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">if the defendant wishes to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">dispute the jurisdiction of the court; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">argue that the court should not exercise its jurisdiction,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">file within 14 days of service (or where the claim form is served out of the jurisdiction, within the time specified in rule 6.35) an acknowledgment of service as set out in Practice Direction 61.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(8)</span> <span class="text">If a defendant files an acknowledgment of service under paragraph (7)(b) he will be treated as having accepted that the court has jurisdiction to hear the claim unless he applies under Part 11 within 14 days after filing the acknowledgment of service.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(9)</span> <span class="text">Where one or more named defendants admits the right to limit –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claimant may apply for a restricted limitation decree in the form set out in Practice Direction 61; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the court will issue a decree in the form set out in Practice Direction 61 limiting liability only against those named defendants who have admitted the claimant&#39;s right to limit liability.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(10)</span> <span class="text">A restricted limitation decree –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may be obtained against any named defendant who fails to file a defence within the time specified for doing so; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">need not be advertised, but a copy must be served on the defendants to whom it applies.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(11)</span> <span class="text">Where all the defendants upon whom the claim form has been served admit the claimant&#39;s right to limit liability –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claimant may apply to the Admiralty Registrar for a general limitation decree in the form set out in Practice Direction 61; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the court will issue a limitation decree.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(12)</span> <span class="text">Where one or more of the defendants upon whom the claim form has been served do not admit the claimant&#39;s right to limit, the claimant may apply for a general limitation decree in the form set out in Practice Direction 61.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(13)</span> <span class="text">When a limitation decree is granted the court –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">order that any proceedings relating to any claim arising out of the occurrence be stayed;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">order the claimant to establish a limitation fund if one has not been established or make such other arrangements for payment of claims against which liability is limited; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">if the decree is a restricted limitation decree, distribute the limitation fund; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">will, if the decree is a general limitation decree, give directions as to advertisement of the decree and set a time within which notice of claims against the fund must be filed or an application made to set aside the decree.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(14)</span> <span class="text">When the court grants a general limitation decree the claimant must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">advertise it in such manner and within such time as the court directs; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">file –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">a declaration that the decree has been advertised in accordance with paragraph (a); and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">copies of the advertisements.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(15)</span> <span class="text">No later than the time set in the decree for filing claims, each of the defendants who wishes to assert a claim must file and serve his statement of case on –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the limiting party; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">all other defendants except where the court orders otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(16)</span> <span class="text">Any person other than a defendant upon whom the claim form has been served may apply to the court within the time fixed in the decree to have a general limitation decree set aside.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(17)</span> <span class="text">An application under paragraph (16) must be supported by a declaration –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">stating that the applicant has a claim against the claimant arising out of the occurrence; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">setting out grounds for contending that the claimant is not entitled to the decree, either in the amount of limitation or at all.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(18)</span> <span class="text">The claimant may constitute a limitation fund by making a payment into court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(19)</span> <span class="text">A limitation fund may be established before or after a limitation claim has been started.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(20)</span> <span class="text">If a limitation claim is not commenced within 75 days after the date the fund was established –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the fund will lapse; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">all money in court (including interest) will be repaid to the person who made the payment into court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(21)</span> <span class="text">Money paid into court under paragraph (18) will not be paid out except under an order of the court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(22)</span> <span class="text">A limitation claim for –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a restricted decree may be brought by counterclaim; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a general decree may only be brought by counterclaim with the permission of the court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Stay of proceedings</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.12</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Where the court orders a stay of any claim in rem –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">any property under arrest in the claim remains under arrest; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">any security representing the property remains in force,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">unless the court orders otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Assessors</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">61.13</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">The court may sit with assessors when hearing –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">collision claims; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">other claims involving issues of navigation or seamanship, and</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">the parties will not be permitted to call expert witnesses unless the court orders otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<h2>Footnotes</h2>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">1.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1981 c. 54; section 20 was amended by the Merchant Shipping (Salvage and Pollution) Act 1994 (c. 28), section 1(6) and Schedule 2, paragraph 6; the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 (c. 21), section 314(2) and Schedule 13, paragraph 59 and by the Merchant Shipping and Maritime Security Act 1997 (c. 28), section 29(1) and Schedule 6, paragraph 2.</span><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#backf1000" class="footnote"></a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">2.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1995 c. 21.</span><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#backf1001" class="footnote"></a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">3.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1981 c. 54.</span><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#backf1002" class="footnote"></a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">4.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1968 c. 18.</span><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#backf1003" class="footnote"></a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">5.</span> <span class="footnoteText">The text of the Convention is set out in Schedule 7 to the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 (c. 21).</span><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#backf1004" class="footnote"></a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">6.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1981 c. 54.</span><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part61#backf1005" class="footnote"></a>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>