<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 59 – MERCANTILE COURTS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 59 – MERCANTILE COURTS</h1>
<div>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText">This practice direction supplements Part 59</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">General</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This practice direction applies to mercantile claims.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Mercantile Courts are established in –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the following district registries of the High Court – Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Chester, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Mold and Newcastle upon Tyne; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the Commercial Court of the Queen’s Bench Division at the Royal Courts of Justice (called ‘The London Mercantile Court’).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">All mercantile claims will be heard or determined by a Mercantile judge, except that –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">an application may be heard and determined by any other judge who, if the claim were not a mercantile claim, would have jurisdiction to determine it, if –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the application is urgent and no Mercantile judge is available to hear it; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a Mercantile judge directs it to be heard by another judge; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">unless the court otherwise orders, all proceedings for the enforcement of a Mercantile Court judgment or order for the payment of money will be dealt with by a district judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Provisions in other practice directions which refer to a master or district judge are to be read, in relation to mercantile claims, as if they referred to a Mercantile judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Starting proceedings in a Mercantile Court</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A claim should only be started in a Mercantile Court if it will benefit from the expertise of a Mercantile judge.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The claim form must be marked in the top right hand corner ‘Queen&#39;s Bench Division, __________ District Registry, Mercantile Court’ or ‘Queen’s Bench Division, The London Mercantile Court’ as appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Omitted</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Omitted</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Applications before proceedings are issued</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A party who intends to bring a claim in a Mercantile Court must make any application before the claim form is issued to a judge of that court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The written evidence in support of such an application should show why the claim is suitable to proceed as a mercantile claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Transfer of proceedings to or from a Mercantile Court</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If a claim which has not been issued in a Mercantile Court is suitable to continue as a mercantile claim –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">any party wishing the claim to be transferred to a Mercantile Court may make an application for transfer to the court to which transfer is sought;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">if all parties consent to the transfer, the application may be made by letter to the mercantile listing officer of the court to which transfer is sought, stating why the case is suitable to be transferred to that court and enclosing the written consents of the parties, the claim form and statements of case.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If an application for transfer is made to a court which does not have power to make the order, that court may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">adjourn the application to be heard by a Mercantile judge; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">dismiss the application.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A Mercantile judge may make an order under rule 59.3 of his own initiative.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Default judgment and admissions</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The practice directions supplementing Parts 12 and 14 apply with the following modifications –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">paragraph 4.1(1) of Practice Direction 12 is to be read as referring to the service of the claim form; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the references to ‘particulars of claim’ in paragraphs 2.1, 3.1 and 3.2 of Practice Direction 14 are to be read as referring to the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Variation of time limits by agreement</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the parties, in accordance with rule 2.11, agree in writing to vary a time limit, the claimant must notify the court in writing, giving brief written reasons for the agreed variation.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court may make an order overriding an agreement by the parties varying a time limit.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Case management</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The following parts only of Practice Direction 29 apply –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">paragraph 5 (case management conferences), excluding paragraph 5.9 and modified so far as is made necessary by other specific provisions of this practice direction; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">paragraph 7 (failure to comply with case management directions).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If proceedings are started in a Mercantile Court, the claimant must apply for a case management conference –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">for a Part 7 claim, within 14 days of the date when all defendants who intend to file and serve a defence have done so; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">for a Part 8 claim, within 14 days of the date when all defendants who intend to serve evidence have done so.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If proceedings are transferred to a Mercantile Court, the claimant must apply for a case management conference within 14 days of receiving an acknowledgment of the transfer from the receiving court, unless the judge held, or gave directions for, a case management conference when he made the order transferring the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Any party may, at a time earlier than that provided in paragraphs 7.2 or 7.3, apply in writing to the court to fix a case management conference.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the claimant does not make an application in accordance with paragraphs 7.2 or 7.3, any other party may apply for a case management conference.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.6</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court may fix a case management conference at any time on its own initiative. If it does so, the court will give at least 7 days notice to the parties, unless there are compelling reasons for a shorter period of notice.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.7</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Not less than 7 days before a case management conference –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">each party shall file and serve –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a case management information sheet substantially in the form set out at Appendix A to this practice direction; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">an application notice for any order which that party intends to seek at the case management conference, other than directions referred to in the case management information sheet; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the claimant (or other party applying for the conference) shall in addition file and serve –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a case management file containing –</span></p>
<p><span class="text">—&nbsp;&nbsp;the claim form;</span></p>
<p><span class="text">—&nbsp;&nbsp; the statements of case (excluding schedules of more than 15 pages);</span></p>
<p><span class="text">—&nbsp;&nbsp; any orders already made;</span></p>
<p><span class="text">—&nbsp;&nbsp; the case management information sheets; and</span></p>
<p><span class="text">—&nbsp;&nbsp; a short list of the principal issues to be prepared by the claimant; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a draft order substantially in the form set out at Appendix B to this practice direction, setting out the directions which that party thinks appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.8</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In appropriate cases –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the parties may, not less than 7 days before the date fixed for the case management conference, submit agreed directions for the approval of the judge;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the judge will then either –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">make the directions proposed; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">make them with alterations; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">require the case management conference to proceed; but</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the parties must assume that the conference will proceed until informed to the contrary.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.9</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the parties submit agreed directions and the judge makes them with alterations, any party objecting to the alterations may, within 7 days of receiving the order containing the directions, apply to the court for the directions to be varied.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.10</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The directions given at the case management conference –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">will normally cover all steps in the case through to trial, including the fixing of a trial date or window, or directions for the taking of steps to fix the trial date or window; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">may include the fixing of a progress monitoring date or dates, and make provision for the court to be informed as to the progress of the case at the date or dates fixed.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.11</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the court fixes a progress monitoring date, it may after that date fix a further case management conference or a pre-trial review on its own initiative if –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">no or insufficient information is provided by the parties; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">it is appropriate in view of the information provided.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Pre-trial review and questionnaire</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court may order a pre-trial review at any time.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Each party must file and serve a completed pre-trial check list substantially in the form set out in Appendix C to this practice direction –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">if a pre-trial review has been ordered, not less than 7 days before the date of the review; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">if no pre-trial review has been ordered, not less than 6 weeks before the trial date.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When pre-trial check lists are filed under paragraph 8.2(2) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the judge will consider them and decide whether to order a pre-trial review; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">if he does not order a pre-trial review, he may on his own initiative give directions for the further preparation of the case or as to the conduct of the trial.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">At a pre-trial review –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the parties should if possible be represented by the advocates who will be appearing at the trial;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">any representatives appearing must be fully informed and authorised for the purposes of the review; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the court will give such directions for the conduct of the trial as it sees fit.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Evidence for applications</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The general requirement is that, unless the court orders otherwise –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">evidence in support of an application must be filed and served with the application: see rule 23.7(3);</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">evidence in answer must be filed and served within 14 days after the application is served;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">evidence in reply must be filed and served within 7 days of the service of the evidence in answer.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In any case in which the application is likely to require an oral hearing of more than half a day the periods set out in paragraphs 9.1(2) and (3) will be 28 days and 14 days respectively.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the date fixed for the hearing of the application means that the times in paragraphs 9.1(2) and (3) cannot both be achieved, the evidence must be filed and served –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">as soon as possible; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">in sufficient time to ensure that the application may fairly proceed on the date fixed.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The parties may, in accordance with rule 2.11, agree different periods from those provided above, provided that the agreement does not affect the ability to proceed on the date fixed for the hearing of the application.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Files for applications</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Before the hearing of any application, the applicant must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">provide to the court and each other party an appropriate indexed file for the application with consecutively numbered pages; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">attach to the file an estimate of the reading time required by the judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Judgments and orders</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">After any hearing the claimant must draw up a draft order, unless the decision was made on the application of another party in which case that party must do so.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A draft order must be submitted by the party responsible for drawing it up within 3 clear days of the decision, with sufficient copies for each party and for one to be retained by the court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The sealed orders will be returned to the party submitting them, who will be responsible for serving the order on the other parties.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Orders must be dated with the date of the decision, except for consent orders submitted for approval, which must be left undated.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Annex A</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id4819542" title="pd59 A cmis pdf" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd59_pdf_eps/pd59_cmis.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink" name="id4819542">Case Management Information Sheet – Mercantile Courts (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Annex B</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id4819543" title="pd59 B cmdf pdf" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd59_pdf_eps/pd59_cmdf.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink" name="id4819543">Standard Directions in Mercantile Courts (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Annex C</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id4819544" title="pd59 C ptcl pdf" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd59_pdf_eps/pd59_ptcl.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink" name="id4819544">Pre-trial Check List – Mercantile Courts (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>