<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 34B – FEES FOR EXAMINERS OF THE COURT</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 34B – FEES FOR EXAMINERS OF THE COURT</h1>
<div>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText">This Practice Direction supplements CPR Part 34</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This practice direction sets out –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">how to calculate the fees an examiner of the court (‘an examiner’) may charge; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the expenses he may recover.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(CPR Rule 34.8 (3) (b) provides that the court may make an order for evidence to be obtained by the examination of a witness before an examiner of the court).</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The party who obtained the order for the examination must pay the fees and expenses of the examiner.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(CPR rule 34.14 permits an examiner to charge a fee for the examination and contains other provisions about his fees and expenses, and rule 34.15 provides who may be appointed as an examiner of the court).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">The examination fee</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An examiner may charge an hourly rate for each hour (or part of an hour) that he is engaged in examining the witness.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The hourly rate is to be calculated by reference to the formula set out in paragraph 3.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The examination fee will be the hourly rate multiplied by the number of hours the examination has taken. For example –</span></p>
<p><span class="text">Examination fee = hourly rate x number of hours.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">How to calculate the hourly rate – the formula</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Divide the amount of the minimum annual salary of a post within Group 7 of the judicial salary structure as designated by the Review Body on Senior Salaries<sup><a name="backf0300" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part34/pd_part34b#f0300" class="anchor" id="backf0300">1</a></sup>, by 220 to give <strong>‘x’</strong>; and then divide <strong>‘x’</strong> by <strong>6</strong> to give <strong>the hourly rate</strong>.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">For example –</span></p>
<div class="formula">
</div>
<div class="formula">
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Single fee chargeable on making the appointment for examination</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An examiner of court is also entitled to charge a single fee of twice the hourly rate (calculated in accordance with paragraph 3 above) as ‘the appointment fee’ when the appointment for the examination is made.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The examiner is entitled to retain the appointment fee where the witness fails to attend on the date and time arranged.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the examiner fails to attend on the date and time arranged he may not charge a further appointment fee for arranging a subsequent appointment.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(The examiner need not send the deposition to the court until his fees are paid – see CPR rule 34.14 (2)).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Examiner’s expenses</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The examiner of court is also entitled to recover the following expenses –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">all reasonable travelling expenses;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">any other expenses reasonably incurred; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">subject to paragraph 5.2, any reasonable charge for the room where the examination takes place.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">No expenses may be recovered under sub-paragraph (3) above if the examination takes place at the examiner’s usual business address.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(If the examiner’s fees and expenses are not paid within a reasonable time he may report the fact to the court, see CPR Rule 34.14 (4) and (5)).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<h2>Footnotes</h2>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">1.</span> <span class="footnoteText">The Report of the Review Body on Senior Salaries is published annually by the Stationery Office.</span> <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part34/pd_part34b#backf0300" class="footnote">Back to text</a>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>