<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 35 - EXPERTS AND ASSESSORS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 35 - EXPERTS AND ASSESSORS</h1>
<div>
<div class="contentsBlock">
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Duty to restrict expert evidence</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.1</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Expert evidence shall be restricted to that which is reasonably required to resolve the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Interpretation and definitions</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.2</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A reference to an ‘expert’ in this Part is a reference to a person who has been instructed to give or prepare expert evidence for the purpose of proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">‘Single joint expert’ means an expert instructed to prepare a report for the court on behalf of two or more of the parties (including the claimant) to the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Experts – overriding duty to the court</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.3</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">It is the duty of experts to help the court on matters within their expertise.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">This duty overrides any obligation to the person from whom experts have received instructions or by whom they are paid.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Court’s power to restrict expert evidence</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.4</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">No party may call an expert or put in evidence an expert’s report without the court’s permission.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">When parties apply for permission they must provide an estimate of the costs of the proposed expert evidence and identify –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the field in which expert evidence is required and the issues which the expert evidence will address; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where practicable, the name of the proposed expert.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text"><span class="text">If permission is granted it shall be in relation only to the expert named or the field identified under paragraph (2). The order granting permission may specify the issues which the expert evidence should address.</span></span></p>
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3A)</span> <span class="text">Where a claim has been allocated to the small claims track or the fast track, if permission is given for expert evidence, it will normally be given for evidence from only one expert on a particular issue.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">(Paragraph 7 of Practice Direction 35 sets out some of the circumstances the court will consider when deciding whether expert evidence should be given by a single joint expert.)</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The court may limit the amount of a party’s expert’s fees and expenses that may be recovered from any other party.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">General requirement for expert evidence to be given in a written report</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.5</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Expert evidence is to be given in a written report unless the court directs otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">If a claim is on the small claims track or the fast track, the court will not direct an expert to attend a hearing unless it is necessary to do so in the interests of justice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Written questions to experts</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.6</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A party may put written questions about an expert&#39;s report (which must be proportionate) to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">an expert instructed by another party; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a single joint expert appointed under rule 35.7.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Written questions under paragraph (1) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may be put once only;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">must be put within 28 days of service of the expert’s report; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">must be for the purpose only of clarification of the report,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">unless in any case –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the court gives permission; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">the other party agrees.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">An expert’s answers to questions put in accordance with paragraph (1) shall be treated as part of the expert’s report.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">Where –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a party has put a written question to an expert instructed by another party; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the expert does not answer that question,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">the court may make one or both of the following orders in relation to the party who instructed the expert –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">that the party may not rely on the evidence of that expert; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">that the party may not recover the fees and expenses of that expert from any other party.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Court’s power to direct that evidence is to be given by a single joint expert</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.7</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where two or more parties wish to submit expert evidence on a particular issue, the court may direct that the evidence on that issue is to be given by a single joint expert.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where the parties who wish to submit the evidence (‘the relevant parties’) cannot agree who should be the single joint expert, the court may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">select the expert from a list prepared or identified by the relevant parties; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">direct that the expert be selected in such other manner as the court may direct.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Instructions to a single joint expert</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.8</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where the court gives a direction under rule 35.7 for a single joint expert to be used, any relevant party may give instructions to the expert.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">When a party gives instructions to the expert that party must, at the same time, send a copy to the other relevant parties.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The court may give directions about –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the payment of the expert’s fees and expenses; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">any inspection, examination or experiments which the expert wishes to carry out.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The court may, before an expert is instructed –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">limit the amount that can be paid by way of fees and expenses to the expert; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">direct that some or all of the relevant parties pay that amount into court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">Unless the court otherwise directs, the relevant parties are jointly and severally liable<sup><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary" rel="glossary">(GL)</a></sup> for the payment of the expert’s fees and expenses.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Power of court to direct a party to provide information</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.9</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Where a party has access to information which is not reasonably available to another party, the court may direct the party who has access to the information to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">prepare and file a document recording the information; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">serve a copy of that document on the other party.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Contents of report</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.10</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An expert’s report must comply with the requirements set out in Practice Direction 35.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">At the end of an expert’s report there must be a statement that the expert understands and has complied with their duty to the court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The expert’s report must state the substance of all material instructions, whether written or oral, on the basis of which the report was written.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The instructions referred to in paragraph (3) shall not be privileged<sup><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary" rel="glossary">(GL)</a></sup> against disclosure but the court will not, in relation to those instructions –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">order disclosure of any specific document; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">permit any questioning in court, other than by the party who instructed the expert,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">unless it is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to consider the statement of instructions given under paragraph (3) to be inaccurate or incomplete.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Use by one party of expert’s report disclosed by another</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.11</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Where a party has disclosed an expert’s report, any party may use that expert’s report as evidence at the trial.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Discussions between experts</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.12</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The court may, at any stage, direct a discussion between experts for the purpose of requiring the experts to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">identify and discuss the expert issues in the proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where possible, reach an agreed opinion on those issues.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The court may specify the issues which the experts must discuss.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The court may direct that following a discussion between the experts they must prepare a statement for the court setting out those issues on which –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">they agree; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">they disagree, with a summary of their reasons for disagreeing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The content of the discussion between the experts shall not be referred to at the trial unless the parties agree.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">Where experts reach agreement on an issue during their discussions, the agreement shall not bind the parties unless the parties expressly agree to be bound by the agreement.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Consequence of failure to disclose expert’s report</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.13</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">A party who fails to disclose an expert’s report may not use the report at the trial or call the expert to give evidence orally unless the court gives permission.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Expert’s right to ask court for directions</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.14</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Experts may file written requests for directions for the purpose of assisting them in carrying out their functions.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Experts must, unless the court orders otherwise, provide copies of the proposed requests for directions under paragraph (1) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">to the party instructing them, at least 7 days before they file the requests; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">to all other parties, at least 4 days before they file them.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The court, when it gives directions, may also direct that a party be served with a copy of the directions.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Assessors</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">35.15</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This rule applies where the court appoints one or more persons under section 70 of the Senior Courts Act 1981<sup><a class="anchor" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part35#f0001" name="backf0001" id="backf0001">1</a></sup> or section 63 of the County Courts Act 1984<sup><a class="anchor" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part35#f0002" name="backf0002" id="backf0002">2</a></sup>as an assessor.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">An assessor will assist the court in dealing with a matter in which the assessor has skill and experience.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">An assessor will take such part in the proceedings as the court may direct and in particular the court may direct an assessor to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">prepare a report for the court on any matter at issue in the proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">attend the whole or any part of the trial to advise the court on any such matter.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">If an assessor prepares a report for the court before the trial has begun –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the court will send a copy to each of the parties; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the parties may use it at trial.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">The remuneration to be paid to an assessor is to be determined by the court and will form part of the costs of the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">The court may order any party to deposit in the court office a specified sum in respect of an assessor’s fees and, where it does so, the assessor will not be asked to act until the sum has been deposited.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">Paragraphs (5) and (6) do not apply where the remuneration of the assessor is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<h2>Footnotes</h2>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">1.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1981 c. 54.</span> <a class="footnote" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part35#backf0001">Back to text</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">2.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1984 c. 28.</span> <a class="footnote" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part35#backf0002">Back to text</a>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>