<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 35 – EXPERTS AND ASSESSORS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 35 – EXPERTS AND ASSESSORS</h1>
<div>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText">This Practice Direction supplements CPR Part 35</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Introduction</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Part 35 is intended to limit the use of oral expert evidence to that which is reasonably required. In addition, where possible, matters requiring expert evidence should be dealt with by only one expert. Experts and those instructing them are expected to have regard to the guidance contained in the Protocol for the Instruction of Experts to give Evidence in Civil Claims annexed to this practice direction. (Further guidance on experts is contained in Annex C to the Practice Direction (Pre-Action Conduct)).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Expert Evidence – General Requirements</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Expert evidence should be the independent product of the expert uninfluenced by the pressures of litigation.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Experts should assist the court by providing objective, unbiased opinions on matters within their expertise, and should not assume the role of an advocate.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Experts should consider all material facts, including those which might detract from their opinions.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Experts should make it clear –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">when a question or issue falls outside their expertise; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">when they are not able to reach a definite opinion, for example because they have insufficient information.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If, after producing a report, an expert&#39;s view changes on any material matter, such change of view should be communicated to all the parties without delay, and when appropriate to the court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Form and Content of an Expert’s Report</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An expert&#39;s report should be addressed to the court and not to the party from whom the expert has received instructions.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An expert&#39;s report must:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">give details of the expert&#39;s qualifications;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">give details of any literature or other material which has been relied on in making the report;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">contain a statement setting out the substance of all facts and instructions which are material to the opinions expressed in the report or upon which those opinions are based;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">make clear which of the facts stated in the report are within the expert&#39;s own knowledge;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">say who carried out any examination, measurement, test or experiment which the expert has used for the report, give the qualifications of that person, and say whether or not the test or experiment has been carried out under the expert&#39;s supervision;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">where there is a range of opinion on the matters dealt with in the report –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">summarise the range of opinions; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">give reasons for the expert&#39;s own opinion;</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">contain a summary of the conclusions reached;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(8)</span> <span class="text">if the expert is not able to give an opinion without qualification, state the qualification; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(9)</span> <span class="text">contain a statement that the expert –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">understands their duty to the court, and has complied with that duty; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">is aware of the requirements of Part 35, this practice direction and the Protocol for Instruction of Experts to give Evidence in Civil Claims.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An expert&#39;s report must be verified by a statement of truth in the following form –</span></p>
<div class="quote">
<p><span class="text">I confirm that I have made clear which facts and matters referred to in this report are within my own knowledge and which are not. Those that are within my own knowledge I confirm to be true. The opinions I have expressed represent my true and complete professional opinions on the matters to which they refer.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Part 22 deals with statements of truth. Rule 32.14 sets out the consequences of verifying a document containing a false statement without an honest belief in its truth.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Information</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Under rule 35.9 the court may direct a party with access to information, which is not reasonably available to another party to serve on that other party a document, which records the information. The document served must include sufficient details of all the facts, tests, experiments and assumptions which underlie any part of the information to enable the party on whom it is served to make, or to obtain, a proper interpretation of the information and an assessment of its significance.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Instructions</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Cross-examination of experts on the contents of their instructions will not be allowed unless the court permits it (or unless the party who gave the instructions consents). Before it gives permission the court must be satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to consider that the statement in the report of the substance of the instructions is inaccurate or incomplete. If the court is so satisfied, it will allow the cross-examination where it appears to be in the interests of justice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Questions to Experts</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where a party sends a written question or questions under rule 35.6 direct to an expert, a copy of the questions must, at the same time, be sent to the other party or parties.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The party or parties instructing the expert must pay any fees charged by that expert for answering questions put under rule 35.6. This does not affect any decision of the court as to the party who is ultimately to bear the expert&#39;s fees.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Single joint expert</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When considering whether to give permission for the parties to rely on expert evidence and whether that evidence should be from a single joint expert the court will take into account all the circumstances in particular, whether:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">it is proportionate to have separate experts for each party on a particular issue with reference to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the amount in dispute;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">the importance to the parties; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">the complexity of the issue;</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the instruction of a single joint expert is likely to assist the parties and the court to resolve the issue more speedily and in a more cost-effective way than separately instructed experts;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">expert evidence is to be given on the issue of liability, causation or quantum;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">the expert evidence falls within a substantially established area of knowledge which is unlikely to be in dispute or there is likely to be a range of expert opinion;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">a party has already instructed an expert on the issue in question and whether or not that was done in compliance with any practice direction or relevant pre-action protocol;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(f)</span> <span class="text">questions put in accordance with rule 35.6 are likely to remove the need for the other party to instruct an expert if one party has already instructed an expert;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(g)</span> <span class="text">questions put to a single joint expert may not conclusively deal with all issues that may require testing prior to trial;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(h)</span> <span class="text">a conference may be required with the legal representatives, experts and other witnesses which may make instruction of a single joint expert impractical; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">a claim to privilege<sup><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary" rel="glossary">(GL)</a></sup> makes the instruction of any expert as a single joint expert inappropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Orders</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where an order requires an act to be done by an expert, or otherwise affects an expert, the party instructing that expert must serve a copy of the order on the expert. The claimant must serve the order on a single joint expert.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Discussions between experts</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless directed by the court discussions between experts are not mandatory. Parties must consider, with their experts, at an early stage, whether there is likely to be any useful purpose in holding an experts’ discussion and if so when.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The purpose of discussions between experts is not for experts to settle cases but to agree and narrow issues and in particular to identify:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the extent of the agreement between them;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">the points of and short reasons for any disagreement;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">action, if any, which may be taken to resolve any outstanding points of disagreement; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iv)</span> <span class="text">any further material issues not raised and the extent to which these issues are agreed.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the experts are to meet, the parties must discuss and if possible agree whether an agenda is necessary, and if so attempt to agree one that helps the experts to focus on the issues which need to be discussed. The agenda must not be in the form of leading questions or hostile in tone.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless ordered by the court, or agreed by all parties, and the experts, neither the parties nor their legal representatives may attend experts discussions.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the legal representatives do attend –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">they should not normally intervene in the discussion, except to answer questions put to them by the experts or to advise on the law; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">the experts may if they so wish hold part of their discussions in the absence of the legal representatives.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.6</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A statement must be prepared by the experts dealing with paragraphs 9.2(i) - (iv) above. Individual copies of the statements must be signed by the experts at the conclusion of the discussion, or as soon thereafter as practicable, and in any event within 7 days. Copies of the statements must be provided to the parties no later than 14 days after signing.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.7</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Experts must give their own opinions to assist the court and do not require the authority of the parties to sign a joint statement.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.8</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If an expert significantly alters an opinion, the joint statement must include a note or addendum by that expert explaining the change of opinion.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Assessors</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An assessor may be appointed to assist the court under rule 35.15. Not less than 21 days before making any such appointment, the court will notify each party in writing of the name of the proposed assessor, of the matter in respect of which the assistance of the assessor will be sought and of the qualifications of the assessor to give that assistance.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where any person has been proposed for appointment as an assessor, any party may object to that person either personally or in respect of that person&#39;s qualification.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Any such objection must be made in writing and filed with the court within 7 days of receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 10.1 and will be taken into account by the court in deciding whether or not to make the appointment.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Copies of any report prepared by the assessor will be sent to each of the parties but the assessor will not give oral evidence or be open to cross-examination or questioning.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading"><ins>Concurrent expert evidence</ins></h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo"><ins>11.1</ins></span></h3>
<p><span class="text"><ins>At any stage in the proceedings the court may direct that some or all of the experts from like disciplines shall give their evidence concurrently. The following procedure shall then apply.</ins></span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo"><ins>11.2</ins></span></h3>
<p><span class="text"><ins>The court may direct that the parties agree an agenda for the taking of concurrent evidence, based upon the areas of disagreement identified in the experts&#39; joint statements made pursuant to rule 35.12.</ins></span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo"><ins>11.3</ins></span></h3>
<p><span class="text"><ins>At the appropriate time the relevant experts will each take the oath or affirm. Unless the court orders otherwise, the experts will then address the items on the agenda in the manner set out in paragraph 11.4.</ins></span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo"><ins>11.4</ins></span></h3>
<p><span class="text"><ins>In relation to each issue on the agenda, and subject to the judge&#39;s discretion to modify the procedure –</ins></span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(<ins>1</ins>)</span> <span class="text"><ins>the judge may initiate the discussion by asking the experts, in turn, for their views. Once an expert has expressed a view the judge may ask questions about it. At one or more appropriate stages when questioning a particular expert, the judge may invite the other expert to comment or to ask that expert&#39;s own questions of the first expert;</ins></span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(<ins>2</ins>)</span> <span class="text"><ins>after the process set out in (1) has been completed for all the experts, the parties&#39; representatives may ask questions of them. While such questioning may be designed to test the correctness of an expert&#39;s view, or seek clarification of it, it should not cover ground which has been fully explored already. In general a full cross-examination or re-examination is neither necessary nor appropriate; and</ins></span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(<ins>3</ins>)</span> <span class="text"><ins>after the process set out in (2) has been completed, the judge may summarise the experts&#39; different positions on the issue and ask them to confirm or correct that summary.</ins></span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Annex</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id6483877" class="pdfLink" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd35_pdf_eps/pd35_prot.pdf" name="id6483877" target="_blank">Protocol for the Instruction of Experts to give Evidence in Civil Claims (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>