<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>Practice Direction 52C - appeals to the court of appeal</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>Practice Direction 52C - appeals to the court of appeal</h1>
<h2>This Practice Direction supplements CPR Part 52<br></h2>
<p align="left">Contents of this Practice Direction</p>
<h3>Contents of this Practice Direction</h3>
<p>This Practice Direction is divided into the following sections –</p>
<p>Section I – Introduction and interpretation</p>
<p>Section II – Starting an appeal to the Court of Appeal, Grounds of Appeal and Skeleton Arguments</p>
<p>Section III –Respondent’s notice and respondent&#39;s skeleton argument</p>
<p>Section IV – Procedure where permission to appeal is sought from the Court of Appeal</p>
<p>Section V –Timetable</p>
<p>Section VI – Management of the appeal</p>
<p>Section VII – Bundles, amendment and supplementary skeleton arguments</p>
<h2>SECTION I – INTRODUCTION AND INTERPRETATION</h2>
<p><strong>1.</strong>&nbsp; In this Practice Direction –</p>
<p>‘appeal notice’ means either an appellant’s notice in form N161 or a respondent’s notice in form N162 ;</p>
<p>‘appellant’s notice’ means an appeal notice filed by an appellant and a ‘respondent’s notice’ means an appeal notice filed by a respondent;</p>
<p>‘hearing date’ means the date on which the appeal is listed to be heard, including a‘floating’ date over two or more days;</p>
<p>‘listing window notification’ means the letter sent by the Civil Appeals Office in accordance with Section 5: Timetable Part 1 notifying the parties of the window within which the appeal is likely to be heard; and ‘date of the listing window notification’ means the date of such letter;</p>
<p>‘replacement skeleton argument’ means a skeleton argument which has been amended in order to include cross references to the appeal bundle and is lodged and served in accordance with the timetable at Section 5 Part 2.</p>
<p><strong>2.</strong>&nbsp; The court may make such directions as the case may require and such directions will prevail over any provision of this practice direction.</p>
<h2>SECTION II – STARTING AN APPEAL TO THE COURT OF APPEAL</h2>
<h3>Filing the appellant’s notice and accompanying documents</h3>
<p><strong>3.</strong></p>
<p>(1) An appellant’s notice (Form N161) must be filed and served in all cases. The appellant’s notice must be accompanied by the appropriate fee or, if appropriate, a fee remission certificate.</p>
<p>(2) The appellant’s notice and accompanying documents must be filed in the Civil Appeals Office Registry, Room E307, Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London, WC2A 2LL.</p>
<p>(3) At the same time as filing an appellant’s notice, the appellant must provide for the use of the court three copies of the appellant’s notice and one copy of each of the following –</p>
<p>(a) the sealed order or tribunal determination being appealed;</p>
<p>(b) any order granting or refusing permission to appeal, together with a copy of the judge’s or tribunal’s reasons for granting or refusing permission to appeal;</p>
<p>(c) any witness statements or affidavits relied on in support of any application included in the appellant’s notice;</p>
<p>(d) in cases where the decision of the lower court was itself made on appeal, the first order, the reasons given by the judge who made it, and the appellant’s notice of appeal against that order;</p>
<p>(e) in a claim for judicial review or a statutory appeal, the original decision which was the subject of the application to the lower court;</p>
<p>(f) the order allocating the case to a track (if any);</p>
<p>(g) the appellant’s skeleton argument in support of the appeal;</p>
<p>(h) the approved transcript of the judgment.</p>
<p>(4) The appellant must also provide to the court one copy of the appellant’s notice for each respondent for sealing by the court and return to the appellant for service.</p>
<p>(5) Where the appellant applies for permission to appeal, additional documents are required: see Section 4 of this Practice Direction.</p>
<p>(5) Provisions in relation to the skeleton argument are set out in paragraph 31.</p>
<h3>Extension of time for filing appellant’s notice</h3>
<p><strong>4.</strong></p>
<p>(1) Where the time for filing an appellant’s notice has expired, the appellant must –</p>
<p>(a) file the appellant’s notice; and</p>
<p>(b) include in that appellant’s notice an application for an extension of time.</p>
<p>(2) The appellant’s notice must state the reason for the delay and the steps taken prior to the application being made.</p>
<p>(3) Where the appellant’s notice includes an application for an extension of time and permission to appeal has been given or is not required, the respondent has the right to oppose that application and to be heard at any hearing of that application. In respect of any application to extend time –</p>
<p>(a) The respondent must–</p>
<p>(i) be served with a copy of any evidence filed in support of the application; and</p>
<p>(ii) inform the court in writing of any objections to the grant of the extension of time within 7 days of being served with the appellant’s notice.</p>
<p>(b) A respondent who unreasonably opposes an application for an extension of time may be ordered to pay the costs of the application.</p>
<p>(c) An application for an extension of time will normally be determined without a hearing unless the court directs otherwise.</p>
<h3>Grounds of appeal</h3>
<p><strong>5.</strong></p>
<p>(1) The grounds of appeal must identify as concisely as possible the respects in which the judgment of the court below is –</p>
<p>(a) wrong; or</p>
<p>(b) unjust because of a serious procedural or other irregularity,</p>
<p>as required by rule 52.11(3).</p>
<p>(2) The reasons why the decision under appeal is wrong or unjust must not be included in the grounds of appeal and must be confined to the skeleton argument.</p>
<h3>Second appeals</h3>
<p><strong>5A</strong>&nbsp; An application to make a second appeal must identify in the grounds of appeal –</p>
<p>(1) the important point of principle or practice, or</p>
<p>(2) the compelling reason</p>
<p>which is said to justify the grant of permission to appeal.</p>
<h3>Non-availability of documents</h3>
<p><strong>6.</strong>&nbsp; If the appellant is unable to provide any of the necessary documents in time, the appellant must complete the appeal notice on the basis of the available documents. The notice may be amended subsequently with the permission of the court (see paragraph 30).</p>
<h3>Service on the respondent</h3>
<p><strong>7.1</strong>&nbsp; The Civil Appeals Office will not serve documents. Where service is required by the Rules or this Practice Direction, it must be effected by the parties.</p>
<p><strong>7.1A</strong>&nbsp; The appellant’s skeleton argument must be served on each respondent at the same time as service of the appellant’s notice.<br></p>
<p><strong>7.2</strong>&nbsp; The evidence in support of any application made in an appellant’s notice must be filed and served with the appellant’s notice.</p>
<p><strong>7.3</strong>&nbsp; An application for an order to dispense with service of the appellant’s notice under rule 6.28 must be made in the appeal notice or, thereafter, by application notice under Part 23.</p>
<h2>SECTION III – RESPONDENT’S NOTICE (RULE 52.5) AND RESPONDENT’S SKELETON ARGUMENT</h2>
<h3>Respondent’s notice</h3>
<p><strong>8.</strong></p>
<p>(1) A respondent who seeks to appeal against any part of the order made by the court below must file an appeal notice.</p>
<p>(2) A respondent who seeks a variation of the order of the lower court must file an appeal notice and must obtain permission to appeal.</p>
<p>(3) A respondent who seeks to contend that the order of the court below should be upheld for reasons other than those given by that court must file a respondent’s notice.</p>
<p>(4) The notice may be amended subsequently with the permission of the court (see paragraph 30).</p>
<h3>Skeleton argument to be lodged with the respondent’s notice</h3>
<p><strong>9.</strong>&nbsp; A respondent who files a respondent’s notice must, within 14 days of filing the notice, lodge a skeleton argument with the court and serve a copy of the skeleton argument on every other party to the appeal.</p>
<p>(Provisions in relation to the skeleton argument are set out in paragraph 31.)</p>
<h3>Documents to be filed with respondent’s notice</h3>
<p><strong>10.</strong>&nbsp; The respondent must file the following documents with the respondent’s notice –</p>
<p>(a) two additional copies of the respondent’s notice for the court; and</p>
<p>(b) one copy each for the appellant and any other respondents.</p>
<h3>Applications within respondent’s notice</h3>
<p><strong>11.</strong></p>
<p>(1) A respondent may include an application within a respondent’s notice.</p>
<p>(2) The parties must consider whether it would be more convenient for any application to be listed with the appeal or whether the application needs to be considered in advance.</p>
<p>(3) Where parties consider that the time estimate for the appeal will be affected by listing the application with the appeal, they must inform the court without delay.</p>
<h3>Time limits: rule 52.5(4) and (5)</h3>
<p><strong>12.</strong>&nbsp; Where an extension of time is required, the respondent must apply in the respondent’s notice and explain the delay.</p>
<h3>Respondent’s skeleton argument (where no respondent’s notice filed)</h3>
<p><strong>13.</strong></p>
<p>(1) In all cases where the respondent is legally represented and proposes to address the court, the respondent must lodge and serve a skeleton argument.</p>
<p>(2) A respondent’s skeleton argument must be lodged and served in accordance with Part 1 of the Timetable in Section 5.</p>
<p>(Provisions in relation to the skeleton argument are set out in paragraph 31.)</p>
<h2>SECTION IV – PROCEDURE WHERE PERMISSION TO APPEAL IS SOUGHT FROM THE COURT OF APPEAL</h2>
<h3>Documents for use on an application for permission</h3>
<p><strong>14.</strong></p>
<p>(1) Within 14 days of filing the appeal notice the appellant must lodge a bundle containing only those documents which are necessary for the court to determine that application.</p>
<p>(2) The bundle of documents must–</p>
<p>(a) be paginated and in chronological order;</p>
<p>(b) contain an index at the front.</p>
<h3>Determination of applications for permission to appeal</h3>
<p><strong>15.</strong></p>
<p>(1) Applications for permission to appeal will generally be considered by the court without a hearing in the first instance. The court will notify the parties of the decision and the reasons for it.</p>
<p>(2) If permission is refused the appellant is entitled to have the decision reconsidered at an oral hearing, except where rule 52.3(4A) (applications totally without merit) applies. The hearing may be before the same judge.</p>
<p>(3) A request for the decision to be reconsidered at an oral hearing must be filed within 7 days after service of the letter giving notice that permission has been refused. A copy of the request must be served by the appellant on the respondent at the same time.</p>
<h3>Permission hearing</h3>
<p><strong>16.</strong></p>
<p>(1) Where an appellant who is represented makes a request for a decision to be reconsidered at an oral hearing, the appellant’s advocate must at least 4 days before the hearing file a brief written statement –</p>
<p>(a) informing the court and the respondent of the points which are to be raised at the hearing; and</p>
<p>(b) setting out the reasons why permission should be granted notwithstanding the reasons given for the refusal of permission.</p>
<p>(2) The court will notify the respondent of the hearing but the respondent is not expected to attend unless the court so directs.</p>
<p>(3) If the court directs the respondent to attend the permission hearing, the appellant must supply the respondent with a copy of the skeleton argument and any documents to which the appellant intends to refer.</p>
<h3>Appellant in receipt of services funded by the Legal Services Commission applying for permission to appeal</h3>
<p><strong>17.</strong>&nbsp; Where the appellant is in receipt of services funded by the Legal Services Commission and permission to appeal has been refused by the court without a hearing, the appellant must send a copy of the court’s reasons for refusing permission to the Legal Services Commission as soon as it has been received. The court will require confirmation that this has been done if a hearing is requested to re-consider the application.</p>
<h3>Limited permission: rule 52.3</h3>
<p><strong>18.</strong></p>
<p>(1) If, under rule 52.3(7), the court grants permission to appeal on some issues only, it will –</p>
<p>(a) refuse permission on any remaining issues; or</p>
<p>(b) adjourn the application in respect of those issues to the hearing of the appeal.</p>
<p>(2) If the court adjourns the application under sub-paragraph (1)(b), the appellant must inform the court and the respondent in writing, within 14 days after the date of the court’s order, whether the appellant intends to pursue the application. If the appellant intends to pursue the application, the parties must include in any time estimate for the appeal hearing an allowance for the adjourned application.</p>
<p>(3) If the court refuses permission to appeal on the remaining issues without a hearing and the applicant wishes to have that decision reconsidered at an oral hearing, the time limit in rule 52.3(5) applies. Any application for an extension of this time should be made promptly. When hearing the appeal on the issues for which permission has been given the court will not normally grant an application to extend time in relation to the remaining issues.</p>
<h3>Respondent need not take any action when served with an appellant’s notice</h3>
<p><strong>19.</strong>&nbsp; Unless the court directs otherwise, a respondent need not take any action when served with an appellant’s notice until notified that permission to appeal has been granted.</p>
<h3>Respondent’s costs of permission applications</h3>
<p><strong>20.</strong></p>
<p>(1) In most cases an application for permission to appeal will be determined without the need for the respondent to file submissions or attend a hearing. In such circumstances an order for costs will not normally be made in favour of a respondent who voluntarily makes submissions or attends a hearing.</p>
<p>(2) If the court directs the respondent to file submissions or attend a hearing, it will normally award costs to the respondent if permission is refused.</p>
<h2>SECTION V – TIMETABLE</h2>
<p><strong>21.</strong>&nbsp; Subject to any specific directions that may be given by the court, the timetable for the conduct of an appeal after the date of the listing window notification is set out below:</p>
<p><strong>Timetable Part 1 – Listing window notification to lodging bundle</strong></p>
<p><strong>Timetable Part 2 – Steps to be taken once hearing date fixed: lodging bundles, supplemental skeletons and bundles of authorities</strong></p>
<h2>SECTION VI – MANAGEMENT OF THE APPEAL</h2>
<h3>Listing and hear-by dates</h3>
<p><strong>22.</strong>&nbsp; The hear-by date is the last day of the listing window.</p>
<h3>Appeal Questionnaire</h3>
<p><strong>23.</strong>&nbsp; The appellant must complete and file the Appeal Questionnaire and serve it on the respondent within 14 days after the date of the listing window notification.</p>
<h3>Time estimates</h3>
<p><strong>24.</strong>&nbsp; If the respondent disagrees with the appellant’s time estimate, the respondent must inform the court within 7 days of service of the Appeal Questionnaire. In the absence of such notification the respondent will be deemed to have accepted the appellant’s time estimate.</p>
<h3>Multiple appeals</h3>
<p><strong>25.</strong></p>
<p>(1) If two or more appeals are pending in the same or related proceedings, the parties must seek directions as to whether they should be heard together or consecutively by the same judges.</p>
<p>(2) Whether appeals are heard together or consecutively, the parties must attempt to agree a single appeal bundle or set of bundles for all the appeals and seek directions if they are unable to do so.</p>
<h3>Expedition</h3>
<p><strong>26.</strong></p>
<p>(1) The court may direct that the hearing of an appeal be expedited.</p>
<p>(2) The court will deal with requests for expedition without a hearing. Requests for expedition must be made by letter setting out succinctly the grounds on which expedition is sought. The letter (or, if time is particularly short, email) must be marked for the immediate attention of the court and copied to the other parties to the appeal.</p>
<p>(3) If an expedited appeal hearing is required as a matter of extreme urgency, the Civil Appeals Office must be informed as soon as possible. If necessary, parties or their legal representatives should call the Royal Courts of Justice switchboard on 020 7947 6000 and ask a member of the security staff to contact the Duty Judge.</p>
<p>(4) An expedited hearing will be listed at the convenience of the court and not according to the availability of counsel.</p>
<h2>SECTION VII – BUNDLES, AMENDMENT AND SKELETON ARGUMENTS</h2>
<h3>Bundle of documents</h3>
<p><strong>27.</strong></p>
<p>(1) The appellant must lodge an appeal bundle which must contain only those documents relevant to the appeal. The bundle must –</p>
<p>(a) be paginated and in chronological order;</p>
<p>(b) contain an index at the front.</p>
<p>(2) <strong>Documents relevant to the appeal:</strong> Subject to any order made by the court, the following documents must be included in the appeal bundle –</p>
<p>(a) a copy of the appellant’s notice;</p>
<p>(b) a copy of any respondent’s notice;</p>
<p>(c) a copy of any appellant’s or respondent’s skeleton argument;</p>
<p>(d) a copy of the order under appeal;</p>
<p>(e) a copy of the order of the lower court granting or refusing permission to appeal together with a copy of the judge&#39;s reasons, if any, for granting or refusing permission;</p>
<p>(f) a copy of any order allocating the case to a track;</p>
<p>(g) the approved transcript of the judgment of the lower court (except in appeals in cases which were allocated to the small claims track but subject to any order of the court).</p>
<p>(3) <strong>Documents which may be included:</strong> The following documents should also be considered for inclusion in the appeal bundle but should be included only where relevant to the appeal –</p>
<p>(a) statements of case;</p>
<p>(b) application notices;</p>
<p>(c) other orders made in the case;</p>
<p>(d) a chronology of relevant events;</p>
<p>(e) witness statements made in support of any application made in the appellant’s notice;</p>
<p>(f) other witness statements;</p>
<p>(g) other documents which the appellant or respondent consider relevant to the appeal.</p>
<p>(4) <strong>Bundles not to include originals:</strong> Unless otherwise directed, the appeal bundle should not include original material such as original documents, photographs and recorded media. Such material should be provided to the court, if necessary, at the hearing.</p>
<p>(5) <strong>Destruction of bundles:</strong> Bundles lodged with the court will not be returned to the parties but will be destroyed in the confidential waste system at the conclusion of the proceedings and without further notification.</p>
<h3>Appeals from the Upper Tribunal Immigration and Asylum Chamber</h3>
<p><strong>28.</strong></p>
<p>(1) In an appeal from the Immigration and Asylum Chamber of the Upper Tribunal (other than an appeal relating to a claim for judicial review) –</p>
<p>(a) the Immigration and Asylum Chamber of the Upper Tribunal, upon request, shall send to the Civil Appeals Office copies of the documents which were before the relevant Tribunal when it considered the appeal;</p>
<p>(b) the appellant is not required to file an appeal bundle;</p>
<p>(c) the appellant must file with the appellant’s notice the documents specified in paragraph 4(3)(a) to (e) and (g) of this Practice Direction.</p>
<h3>Bundle of authorities</h3>
<p><strong>29.</strong></p>
<p>(1) After consultation with any opposing advocate, the appellant’s advocate must file a bundle containing photocopies of the authorities upon which each party will rely at the hearing.</p>
<p>(2) The most authoritative report of each authority must be used in accordance with the Practice Direction on Citation of Authorities (2012) and must have the relevant passages marked by a vertical line in the margin.</p>
<p>(3) Photocopies of authorities should not be in landscape format and the type should not be reduced in size.</p>
<p>(4) The bundle should not–</p>
<p>(a) include authorities for propositions not in dispute; or</p>
<p>(b) contain more than 10 authorities unless the issues in the appeal justify more extensive citation.</p>
<p>(5) A bundle of authorities must bear a certificate by the advocates responsible for arguing the case that the requirements of sub-paragraphs (2) to (4) of this paragraph have been complied with in respect of each authority included.</p>
<h3>Amendment of appeal notice: rule 52.8</h3>
<p><strong>30.</strong></p>
<p>(1) An appeal notice may not be amended without the permission of the court.</p>
<p>(2) An application for permission to amend made before permission to appeal has been considered will normally be determined without a hearing.</p>
<p>(3) An application for permission to amend (after permission to appeal has been granted) and any submissions in opposition will normally be dealt with at the hearing unless that would cause unnecessary expense or delay, in which case a request should be made for the application to amend to be heard in advance.</p>
<p>(4) Legal representatives must–</p>
<p>(a) inform the court at the time they make the application if the existing time estimate is affected by the proposed amendment; and</p>
<p>(b) attempt to agree any revised time estimate no later than 7 days after service of the application.</p>
<h3>Skeleton argument</h3>
<p><strong>31.</strong></p>
<p>(1) Any skeleton argument must comply with the provisions of Section 5 of Practice Direction 52A and must–</p>
<p>(a) not normally exceed 25 pages (excluding front sheets and back sheets);</p>
<p>(b) be printed on A4 paper in not less than 12 point font and 1.5 line spacing.</p>
<p>(2) Where an appellant has filed a skeleton argument in support of an application for permission to appeal, the same skeleton argument may be relied upon in the appeal or the appellant may file an appeal skeleton argument (Timetable Section 5, Part 1).</p>
<p>(3) At the hearing the court may refuse to hear argument on a point not included in a skeleton argument filed within the prescribed time.</p>
<p>(4) The court may disallow the cost of preparing an appeal skeleton argument which does not comply with these requirements or was not filed within the prescribed time.</p>
<h3>Supplementary skeleton arguments</h3>
<p><strong>32.</strong></p>
<p>(1) A party may file a supplementary skeleton argument only where strictly necessary and only with the permission of the court.</p>
<p>(2) If a party wishes to rely on a supplementary skeleton argument, it must be lodged and served as soon as practicable. It must be accompanied by a request for permission setting out the reasons why a supplementary skeleton argument is necessary and why it could not reasonably have been lodged earlier.</p>
<p>(3) Only exceptionally will the court allow the use of a supplementary skeleton argument if lodged later than 7 days before the hearing.</p>
</body></html>