<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 41A – PROVISIONAL DAMAGES</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 41A – PROVISIONAL DAMAGES</h1>
<div>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText">This practice direction supplements CPR Part 41</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Claims for provisional damages</h2>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">CPR Part 16 and Practice Direction 16 set out information which must be included in the particulars of claim if a claim for provisional damages is made.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Judgment for an award of provisional damages</h2>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When giving judgment at trial the judge will:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">specify the disease or type of deterioration, or diseases or types of deterioration, which</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">for the purpose of the award of immediate damages it has been assumed will not occur, and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">will entitle the claimant to further damages if it or they do occur at a future date,</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">give an award of immediate damages,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">specify the period or periods within which an application for further damages may be made in respect of each disease or type of deterioration, and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">direct what documents are to be filed and preserved as the case file in support of any application for further damages.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The claimant may make an application or applications to extend the periods referred to in paragraph 2.1(3) above<sup><a name="backf0338" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part41/pd_part41a#f0338" class="anchor" id="backf0338">1</a></sup>.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A period specified under paragraph 2.1(3) may be expressed as being for the duration of the life of the claimant.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The documents to be preserved as the case file (‘the case file documents’) referred to in paragraph 2.1(4) will be set out in a schedule to the judgment as entered.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Causation of any further damages within the scope of the order shall be determined when any application for further damages is made.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.6</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A form for a provisional damages judgment is set out in the Annex to this practice direction.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">The case file</h2>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The case file documents must be preserved until the expiry of the period or periods specified or of any extension of them.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The case file documents will normally include:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the judgment as entered,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the statements of case,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">a transcript of the judge’s oral judgment,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">all medical reports relied on, and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">a transcript of any parts of the claimant’s own evidence which the judge considers necessary.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The associate/court clerk will:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">ensure that the case file documents are provided by the parties where necesary and filed on the court file,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">endorse the court file</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">to the effect that it contains the case file documents, and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">with the period during which the case file documents must be preserved, and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">preserve the case file documents in the court office where the proceedings took place.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Any subsequent order:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">extending the period within which an application for further damages may be made, or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">of the Court of Appeal discharging or varying the provisions of the original judgment or of any subsequent order under sub-paragraph (1) above,</span></p>
<p><span class="text">will become one of the case file documents and must be preserved accordingly and any variation of the period within which an application for further damages may be made should be endorsed on the court file containing the case file documents.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">On an application to extend the periods referred to in paragraph 2.1(3) above a current medical report should be filed.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.6</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Legal representatives are reminded that it is their duty to preserve their own case file.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Consent orders</h2>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application to give effect to a consent order for provisional damages should be made in accordance with CPR Part 23. If the claimant is a child or protected party<sup><a name="backf0339" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part41/pd_part41a#f0339" class="anchor" id="backf0339">2</a></sup> the approval of the court must also be sought and the application for approval will normally be dealt with at a hearing.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The order should be in the form of a consent judgment and should contain:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the matters set out in paragraph 2.1(1) to (3) above, and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">a direction as to the documents to be preserved as the case file documents, which will normally be</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the consent judgment,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">any statements of case,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">an agreed statement of facts, and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">any agreed medical report(s).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The claimant or his legal representative must lodge the case file documents in the court office where the proceedings are taking place for inclusion in the court file. The court file should be endorsed as in paragraph 3.3(2) above, and the case file documents preserved as in paragraph 3.3(3) above.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Default judgment</h2>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where a defendant:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">fails to file an acknowledgment of service in accordance with CPR Part 10, and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">fails to file a defence in accordance with CPR Part 15,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">within the time specified for doing so, the claimant may not, unless he abandons his claim for provisional damages, enter judgment in default but should make an application in accordance with CPR Part 23 for directions.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The Master or district judge will normally direct the following issues to be decided:</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">whether the claim is an appropriate one for an award of provisional damages and if so, on what terms, and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the amount of immediate damages.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the judge makes an award of provisional damages, the provisions of paragraph 3 above apply.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">ANNEX</span></h2>
<h3 class="headingblock">(Example of an award of provisional damages after trial)</h3>
<p class="alignCenter"><span class="text">(<em>Title of proceedings</em>)</span></p>
<p><span class="text"><strong>THIS CLAIM</strong> having been tried before [<em>title and name of judge</em>] without a jury at [the Royal Courts of Justice <em>or as may be</em>] and [<em>title and name of judge</em>] having ordered that judgment as set out below be entered for the claimant</span></p>
<div class="pdsection">
<p><span class="text"><strong>IT IS ORDERED –</strong></span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">that the defendant pay the claimant by way of immediate damages the sum of £............... (being (i) £.............. for special damages and £............. [agreed interest][interest at the rate of ...... from...........to............] (ii) £.............. for general damages and £.............. [agreed interest][interest at the rate of 2% from......... to...........] and (iii) £............... for loss of future earnings and/or earning capacity) on the assumption that the claimant would not at a future date as a result of the act or omission giving rise to the claim develop the following disease/type of deterioration namely [<em>set out disease or type of deterioration</em>]</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">that if the claimant at a further date does develop that [disease][type of deterioration] he should be entitled to apply for further damages provided that the application is made on or before [<em>set out period</em>]</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">that the documents set out in the schedule to this order be filed on the court file and preserved as the case file until the expiry of the period set out in paragraph (2) above or of any extension of that period which has been ordered</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">(costs)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<h3 class="headingblock">SCHEDULE</h3>
<p class="alignCenter"><span class="text">(<em>list documents referred to in paragraph (3)</em>)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<h2>Footnotes</h2>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">1.</span> <span class="footnoteText">See CPR rule 41.2(3).</span> <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part41/pd_part41a#backf0338" class="footnote">Back to text</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">2.</span> <span class="footnoteText">See Part 21 for the meaning of ‘child’ and ‘protected party’.</span> <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part41/pd_part41a#backf0339" class="footnote">Back to text</a>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>