<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 62 – ARBITRATION</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 62 – ARBITRATION</h1>
<div>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText">This Practice Direction supplements Part 62</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">SECTION I</h2>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This Section of this Practice Direction applies to arbitration claims to which Section I of Part 62 applies.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In this Section ‘the 1996 Act’ means the Arbitration Act 1996.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where a rule provides for a document to be sent, it may be sent –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">by first class post;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">through a document exchange; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">by fax, electronic mail or other means of electronic communication.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">62.3 – Starting the claim</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An arbitration claim under the 1996 Act (other than under section 9) must be started in accordance with the High Court and County Courts (Allocation of Arbitration Proceedings) Order 1996 by the issue of an arbitration claim form.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An arbitration claim form must be substantially in the form set out in Appendix A to this practice direction.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Subject to paragraph 2.1, an arbitration claim form –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">may be issued at the courts set out in column 1 of the table below and will be entered in the list set out against that court in column 2;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">relating to a landlord and tenant or partnership dispute must be issued in the Chancery Division of the High Court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="tabular">
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3A</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An arbitration claim form must, in the case of an appeal, or application for permission to appeal, from a judge-arbitrator, be issued in the Civil Division of the Court of Appeal. The judge hearing the application may adjourn the matter for oral argument before two judges of that court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">62.4 – Arbitration claim form</h3>
<div class="pdmicrogroup">
<h4 class="sectionHeading">Service</h4>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">The court may exercise its powers under rule 6.15 to permit service of an arbitration claim form at the address of a party’s solicitor or representative acting for that party in the arbitration.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">3.2</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">Where the arbitration claim form is served by the claimant he must file a certificate of service within 7 days of service of the arbitration claim form.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Rule 6.17 specifies what a certificate of service must show).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Acknowledgment of service or making representations by arbitrator or ACAS</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">an arbitrator; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">ACAS (in a claim under the 1996 Act as applied with modifications by the ACAS Arbitration Scheme (England and Wales) Order 2001)</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">is sent a copy of an arbitration claim form (including an arbitration claim form sent under rule 62.6(2)), that arbitrator or ACAS (as the case may be) may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">apply to be made a defendant; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">make representations to the court under paragraph 4.3.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An application under paragraph 4.1(2)(a) to be made a defendant –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">must be served on the claimant; but</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">need not be served on any other party.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">4.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An arbitrator or ACAS may make representations by filing written evidence or in writing to the court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Supply of documents from court records</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An arbitration claim form may only be inspected with the permission of the court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">62.7 – Case management</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">6.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The following directions apply unless the court orders otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">6.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">A defendant who wishes to rely on evidence before the court must file and serve his written evidence –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">within 21 days after the date by which he was required to acknowledge service; or,</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">where a defendant is not required to file an acknowledgement of service, within 21 days after service of the arbitration claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">6.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">A claimant who wishes to rely on evidence in reply to written evidence filed under paragraph 6.2 must file and serve his written evidence within 7 days after service of the defendant&#39;s evidence.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">6.4</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Agreed indexed and paginated bundles of all the evidence and other documents to be used at the hearing must be prepared by the claimant.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">6.5</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Not later than 5 days before the hearing date estimates for the length of the hearing must be filed together with a complete set of the documents to be used.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">6.6</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Not later than 2 days before the hearing date the claimant must file and serve –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">a chronology of the relevant events cross-referenced to the bundle of documents;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">(where necessary) a list of the persons involved; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">a skeleton argument which lists succinctly –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the issues which arise for decision;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the grounds of relief (or opposing relief) to be relied upon;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the submissions of fact to be made with the references to the evidence; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">the submissions of law with references to the relevant authorities.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">6.7</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Not later than the day before the hearing date the defendant must file and serve a skeleton argument which lists succinctly –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the issues which arise for decision;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the grounds of relief (or opposing relief) to be relied upon;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the submissions of fact to be made with the references to the evidence; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">the submissions of law with references to the relevant authorities.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Securing the attendance of witnesses</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">7.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">A party to arbitral proceedings being conducted in England or Wales who wishes to rely on section 43 of the 1996 Act to secure the attendance of a witness must apply for a witness summons in accordance with Part 34.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">7.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">If the attendance of the witness is required within the district of a district registry, the application may be made at that registry.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">7.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">A witness summons will not be issued until the applicant files written evidence showing that the application is made with –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the permission of the tribunal; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the agreement of the other parties.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Interim remedies</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">8.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An application for an interim remedy under section 44 of the 1996 Act must be made in an arbitration claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications under sections 32 and 45 of the 1996 Act</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">9.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">This paragraph applies to arbitration claims for the determination of –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">a question as to the substantive jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal under section 32 of the 1996 Act; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">a preliminary point of law under section 45 of the 1996 Act.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">9.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where an arbitration claim is made without the agreement in writing of all the other parties to the arbitral proceedings but with the permission of the arbitral tribunal, the written evidence or witness statements filed by the parties must set out any evidence relied on by the parties in support of their contention that the court should, or should not, consider the claim.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">9.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">As soon as practicable after the written evidence is filed, the court will decide whether or not it should consider the claim and, unless the court otherwise directs, will so decide without a hearing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Decisions without a hearing</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">10.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Having regard to the overriding objective the court may decide particular issues without a hearing. For example, as set out in paragraph 9.3, the question whether the court is satisfied as to the matters set out in section 32(2)(b) or section 45(2)(b) of the 1996 Act.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">10.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The court will generally decide whether to extend the time limit under section 70(3) of the 1996 Act without a hearing. Where the court makes an order extending the time limit, the defendant must file his written evidence within 21 days from service of the order.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">62.9 – Variation of time</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">11.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An application for an order under rule 62.9(1) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">before the period of 28 days has expired, must be made in a Part 23 application notice; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">after the period of 28 days has expired, must be set out in a separately identified part in the arbitration claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications for permission to appeal</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where a party seeks permission to appeal to the court on a question of law arising out of an arbitration award, the arbitration claim form must, in addition to complying with rule 62.4(1) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">identify the question of law;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">state the grounds (but not the argument) on which the party challenges the award and contends that permission should be given;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">be accompanied by a skeleton argument in support of the application in accordance with paragraph 12.2; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">append the award.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Subject to paragraph 12.3, the skeleton argument –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">must be printed in 12 point font, with 1� line spacing;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">should not exceed 15 pages in length; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">must contain an estimate of how long the court is likely to need to deal with the application on the papers.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">If the skeleton argument exceeds 15 pages in length the author must write to the court explaining why that is necessary.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.4</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Written evidence may be filed in support of the application only if it is necessary to show (insofar as that is not apparent from the award itself) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">that the determination of the question raised by the appeal will substantially affect the rights of one or more of the parties;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">that the question is one which the tribunal was asked to determine;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">that the question is one of general public importance;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">that it is just and proper in all the circumstances for the court to determine the question raised by the appeal.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">Any such evidence must be filed and served with the arbitration claim form.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.5</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Unless there is a dispute whether the question raised by the appeal is one which the tribunal was asked to determine, no arbitration documents may be put before the court other than –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the award; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">any document (such as the contract or the relevant parts thereof) which is referred to in the award and which the court needs to read to determine a question of law arising out of the award.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">In this Practice Direction ‘arbitration documents’ means documents adduced in or produced for the purposes of the arbitration.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.6</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">A respondent who wishes to oppose an application for permission to appeal must file a respondent&#39;s notice which –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">sets out the grounds (but not the argument) on which the respondent opposes the application; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">states whether the respondent wishes to contend that the award should be upheld for reasons not expressed (or not fully expressed) in the award and, if so, states those reasons (but not the argument).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.7</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The respondent’s notice must be filed and served within 21 days after the date on which the respondent was required to acknowledge service and must be accompanied by a skeleton argument in support which complies with paragraph 12.2 above.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.8</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Written evidence in opposition to the application should be filed only if it complies with the requirements of paragraph 12.4 above. Any such evidence must be filed and served with the respondent’s notice.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.9</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The applicant may file and serve evidence or argument in reply only if it is necessary to do so. Any such evidence or argument must be as brief as possible and must be filed and served within 7 days after service of the respondent’s notice.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.10</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">If either party wishes to invite the court to consider arbitration documents other than those specified in paragraph 12.5 above the counsel or solicitor responsible for settling the application documents must write to the court explaining why that is necessary.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.11</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">If a party or its representative fails to comply with the requirements of paragraphs 12.1 to 12.9 the court may penalise that party or representative in costs.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.12</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The court will normally determine applications for permission to appeal without an oral hearing but may direct otherwise, particularly with a view to saving time (including court time) or costs.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.13</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where the court considers that an oral hearing is required, it may give such further directions as are necessary.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.14</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where the court refuses an application for permission to appeal without an oral hearing, it will provide brief reasons.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.15</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The bundle for the hearing of any appeal should contain only the claim form, the respondent&#39;s notice, the arbitration documents referred to in paragraph 12.5, the order granting permission to appeal and the skeleton arguments.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">SECTION II</h2>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">13.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This Section of this Practice Direction applies to arbitration claims to which Section II of Part 62 applies.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">62.13 – Starting the claim</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">14.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">An arbitration claim must be started in the Commercial Court and, where required to be heard by a judge, be heard by a judge of that court unless he otherwise directs.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">SECTION III</h2>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">15.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This Section of this Practice Direction applies to enforcement proceedings to which Section III of Part 62 applies.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">62.21 – Registration of awards under the Arbitration (International Investment Disputes) Act 1966</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">16.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Awards ordered to be registered under the 1966 Act and particulars will be entered in the Register kept for that purpose at the Admiralty and Commercial Registry.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Arbitration</span></h2>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N8</strong> Claim form (arbitration)</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N8A</strong> Notes for claimant</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N8B</strong> Notes for defendant</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N15</strong> Acknowledgement of service (arbitration claim)</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
</div>
</body></html>