<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 60 – TECHNOLOGY AND CONSTRUCTION COURT CLAIMS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 60 – TECHNOLOGY AND CONSTRUCTION COURT CLAIMS</h1>
<div>
<a id="idid4542059" class="anchor"></a><a id="idid4542061" class="anchor"></a>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText"><a id="idBack-to-top"></a>This practice direction supplements Part 60</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
<table class="contentsTable">
<caption>
Contents of this Practice Direction
</caption>
<colgroup span="1">
<col span="1"/>
<col span="1"/>
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Title</th>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Number</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDACKC2">General</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;1.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAUKC2">TCC claims</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;2.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAOPC2">How to start a TCC claim</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;3.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAHCG2">Applications before proceedings are issued</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;4.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAFDG2">Transfer of proceedings</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;5.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAJFG2">Assignment of claim to a TCC judge</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;6.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAHGG2">Applications</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;7.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAFHG2">Case management conference</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;8.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAING2">Pre-trial review</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;9.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAQQG2">Listing</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;10.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAGRG2">Trial</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;11.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAISG2">Appendix A</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDANUG2">Appendix B</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDATVG2">Appendix C</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div><a id="idIDACKC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid6170676" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">General</h2><a id="idIDAHKC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This practice direction applies to Technology and Construction Court claims (‘TCC claims’).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAUKC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4813493" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">TCC claims</h2><a id="idIDAZKC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid4864119" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The following are examples of the types of claim which it may be appropriate to bring as TCC claims –</span></p>
<a id="idIDADLC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idid6163077" class="anchor"></a>
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">building or other construction disputes, including claims for the enforcement of the decisions of adjudicators under the Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAPLC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">engineering disputes;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAZLC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">claims by and against engineers, architects, surveyors, accountants and other specialised advisers relating to the services they provide;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDADMC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">claims by and against local authorities relating to their statutory duties concerning the development of land or the construction of buildings;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDANMC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">claims relating to the design, supply and installation of computers, computer software and related network systems;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAXMC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(f)</span> <span class="text">claims relating to the quality of goods sold or hired, and work done, materials supplied or services rendered;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDABNC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(g)</span> <span class="text">claims between landlord and tenant for breach of a repairing covenant;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDALNC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(h)</span> <span class="text">claims between neighbours, owners and occupiers of land in trespass, nuisance etc;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAVNC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">claims relating to the environment (for example, pollution cases);</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA5NC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(j)</span> <span class="text">claims arising out of fires;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAJOC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(k)</span> <span class="text">claims involving taking of accounts where these are complicated; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDATOC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(l)</span> <span class="text">challenges to decisions of arbitrators in construction and engineering disputes including applications for permission to appeal and appeals.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDABPC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A claim given as an example in paragraph 2.1 will not be suitable for this specialist list unless it demonstrates the characteristics in rule 60.1(3). Similarly, the examples are not exhaustive and other types of claim may be appropriate to this specialist list.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAOPC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4813473" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">How to start a TCC claim</h2><a id="idIDATPC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">TCC claims must be issued in the High Court or in a county court specified in this practice direction.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDACAG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The claim form must be marked in the top right hand corner ‘Technology and Construction Court’ below the words ‘The High Court, Queen&#39;s Bench Division’ or ‘The _____ County Court’.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAOAG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">TCC claims brought in the High Court outside London may be issued in any district registry, but it is preferable that wherever possible they should be issued in one of the following district registries, in which a TCC judge will usually be available –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA4AG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Chester, Exeter, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Mold, Newcastle upon Tyne and Nottingham.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAOBG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The county courts in which a TCC claim may be issued are the following –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAWBG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff, Central London, Chester, Exeter, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Mold, Newcastle upon Tyne and Nottingham.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAHCG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4795463" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Applications before proceedings are issued</h2><a id="idIDAMCG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A party who intends to issue a TCC claim must make any application before the claim form is issued to a TCC judge.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAYCG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The written evidence in support of such an application must state that the proposed claim is a TCC claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAFDG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4813408" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Transfer of proceedings</h2><a id="idIDAKDG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where no TCC judge is available to deal with a claim which has been issued in a High Court District Registry or one of the county courts listed in paragraph 3.4 above, the claim may be transferred –</span></p>
<a id="idIDASDG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">if it has been issued in a District Registry, to another District Registry or to the High Court in London; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA2DG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">if it has been issued in a county court, to another county court where a TCC judge would be available.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAKEG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Paragraph 5.1 is without prejudice to the court&#39;s general powers to transfer proceedings under Part 30.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Rule 30.5(3) provides that an application for the transfer of proceedings to or from a specialist list must be made to a judge dealing with claims in that list.)</span></p>
<a id="idIDA1EG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A party applying to a TCC judge to transfer a claim to the TCC specialist list must give notice of the application to the court in which the claim is proceeding, and a TCC judge will not make an order for transfer until he is satisfied that such notice has been given.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAJFG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4796296" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Assignment of claim to a TCC judge</h2><a id="idIDAOFG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When a TCC claim is issued or an order is made transferring a claim to the TCC specialist list, the court will assign the claim to a named TCC judge (‘the assigned TCC judge’) who will have the primary responsibility for the case management of that claim.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA0FG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">All documents relating to the claim must be marked in similar manner to the claim form with the words ‘Technology and Construction Court’ and the name of the assigned TCC judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAHGG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4795470" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Applications</h2><a id="idIDAMGG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application should normally be made to the assigned TCC judge. If the assigned TCC judge is not available, or the court gives permission, the application may be made to another TCC judge.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAYGG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If an application is urgent and there is no TCC judge available to deal with it, the application may be made to any judge who, if the claim were not a TCC claim, would be authorised to deal with the application.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAFHG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4795474" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Case management conference</h2><a id="idIDAKHG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court will fix a case management conference within 14 days of the earliest of these events –</span></p>
<a id="idIDASHG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the filing of an acknowledgment of service;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA2HG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the filing of a defence; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAJIG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the date of an order transferring the claim to a TCC.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAXIG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When the court notifies the parties of the date and time of the case management conference, it will at the same time send each party a case management information sheet and a case management directions form.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(The case management information sheet and the case management directions form are in the form set out in Appendixes A and B to this practice direction.)</span></p>
<a id="idIDAHJG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Not less than two days before the case management conference, each party must file and serve on all other parties –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAPJG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">completed copies of the case management information sheet and case management directions form; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAZJG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">an application notice for any order which that party intends to seek at the case management conference, other than directions referred to in the case management directions form.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAHKG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The parties are encouraged to agree directions to propose to the court by reference to the case management directions form.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDATKG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If any party fails to file or serve the case management information sheet and the case management directions form by the date specified, the court may –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA1KG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">impose such sanction as it sees fit; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAFLG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">either proceed with or adjourn the case management conference.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDATLG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.6</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The directions given at the case management conference will normally include the fixing of dates for –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA1LG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">any further case management conferences;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAFMG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">a pre-trial review;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAPMG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the trial of any preliminary issues that it orders to be tried; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAZMG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">the trial.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAING2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4813361" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Pre-trial review</h2><a id="idIDANNG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When the court fixes the date for a pre-trial review it will send each party a pre-trial review questionnaire.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(The pre-trial review questionnaire is in the form set out in Appendix C to this practice direction).</span></p>
<a id="idIDACOG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Each party must file and serve on all other parties completed copies of the questionnaire not less than two days before the date fixed for the pre-trial review.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAQOG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The parties are encouraged to agree directions to propose to the court.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA4OG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If any party fails to return or exchange the questionnaire by the date specified the court may –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAIPG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">impose such sanction as it sees fit; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDASPG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">either proceed with or adjourn the pre-trial review.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDADQG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">At the pre-trial review, the court will give such directions for the conduct of the trial as it sees fit.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAQQG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4811851" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Listing</h2><a id="idIDAVQG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The provisions about listing questionnaires and listing in Part 29 and Practice Direction 29 do not apply to TCC claims.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAGRG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4795493" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Trial</h2><a id="idIDALRG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Whenever possible the trial of a claim will be heard by the assigned TCC judge.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAXRG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid4813489" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A TCC claim may be tried at any place where there is a TCC judge available to try the claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAISG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="appendix">
<a id="idid4823028" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Appendix A</span></h2><a id="idid6170653" class="anchor"></a>
<h3 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Technology and Construction Court Claims</span></h3>
<h4 class="headingblock"><strong>TCC/CM1</strong> Case management information sheet (Appendix A)</h4>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
</div><a id="idIDANUG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="appendix">
<a id="idid6222079" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Appendix B</span></h2>
<h3 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Technology and Construction Court Claims</span></h3>
<h4 class="headingblock"><strong>TCC/CMD</strong> Case management directions form (Appendix B)</h4>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
</div><a id="idIDATVG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="appendix">
<a id="idid4826463" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Appendix C</span></h2><a id="idid6170665" class="anchor"></a>
<h3 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Technology and Construction Court Claims</span></h3>
<h4 class="headingblock"><strong>TCC/PTR1</strong> Pre-trial review questionnaire (Appendix C)</h4>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>