<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 42 - CHANGE OF SOLICITOR</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 42 - CHANGE OF SOLICITOR</h1>
<a id="idBack-to-top"></a>
<p>Contents of this Part<br/></p>
<table width="100%" border="1" cellpadding="2" cellspacing="0">
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Title</th>
<th>Number</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id42.1">Solicitor acting for a party</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;42.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id42.2">Change of solicitor – duty to give notice</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;42.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id42.3">Order that a solicitor has ceased to act</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;42.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id42.4">Removal of solicitor who has ceased to act on application of another party</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;42.4</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>&nbsp;
<h3><a id="id42.1"></a>Solicitor acting for a party</h3>
<p><strong>42.1</strong>&nbsp; Where the address for service of a party is the business address of his solicitor, the solicitor will be considered to be acting for that party until the provisions of this Part have been complied with.</p>
<p>(Part 6 contains provisions about the address for service)</p>
<h3><a id="id42.2"></a>Change of solicitor – duty to give notice</h3>
<p><strong>42.2</strong></p>
<p>(1) This rule applies where –</p>
<p>(a) a party for whom a solicitor is acting wants to change his solicitor;</p>
<p>(b) a party, after having conducted the claim in person, appoints a solicitor to act on his behalf (except where the solicitor is appointed only to act as an advocate for a hearing); or</p>
<p>(c) a party, after having conducted the claim by a solicitor, intends to act in person.</p>
<p>(2) Where this rule applies, the party or his solicitor (where one is acting) must –</p>
<p>(a) file notice of the change; and</p>
<p>(b) serve notice of the change on every other party and, where paragraph (1)(a) or (c) applies, on the former solicitor.</p>
<p>(3) The notice must state the party’s new address for service.</p>
<p>(4) The notice filed at court must state that notice has been served as required by paragraph (2)(b).</p>
<p>(5) Subject to paragraph (6), where a party has changed his solicitor or intends to act in person, the former solicitor will be considered to be the party’s solicitor unless and until –</p>
<p>(a) notice is filed and served in accordance with paragraph (2); or</p>
<p>(b) the court makes an order under rule 42.3 and the order is served as required by paragraph (3) of that rule.</p>
<p>(6) Where the certificate of a LSC funded client or an assisted person is revoked or discharged –</p>
<p>(a) the solicitor who acted for that person will cease to be the solicitor acting in the case as soon as his retainer is determined –</p>
<p>(i) under regulation 4 of the Community Legal Service (Costs) Regulations 2000<sup><a href="#idfn1">1</a></sup>; <a id="idtext1"></a>or</p>
<p>(ii) under regulation 83 of the Civil Legal Aid (General) Regulations 1989<a href="#idfn2"><sup>2</sup></a>; <a id="idtext2"></a>and</p>
<p>(b) if that person wishes to continue –</p>
<p>(i) where he appoints a solicitor to act on his behalf, paragraph (2) will apply as if he had previously conducted the claim in person; and</p>
<p>(ii) where he wants to act in person, he must give an address for service.</p>
<p>(Rules 6.23 and 6.24 contain provisions about a party’s address for service.)</p>
<p>(7) ‘Certificate’ in paragraph (6) means –</p>
<p>(a) in the case of a LSC funded client, a certificate issued under the Funding Code (approved under section 9 of the Access to Justice Act 1999<sup><a href="#idfn3">3</a></sup>), <a id="idtext3"></a>or</p>
<p>(b) in the case of an assisted person, a certificate within the meaning of the Civil Legal Aid (General) Regulations 1989.</p>
<h3><a id="id42.3"></a>Order that a solicitor has ceased to act</h3>
<p><strong>42.3</strong></p>
<p>(1) A solicitor may apply for an order declaring that he has ceased to be the solicitor acting for a party.</p>
<p>(2) Where an application is made under this rule –</p>
<p>(a) notice of the application must be given to the party for whom the solicitor is acting, unless the court directs otherwise; and</p>
<p>(b) the application must be supported by evidence.</p>
<p>(3) Where the court makes an order that a solicitor has ceased to act –</p>
<p>(a) a copy of the order must be served on every party to the proceedings; and</p>
<p>(b) if it is served by a party or the solicitor, the party or the solicitor (as the case may be) must file a certificate of service.</p>
<h3><a id="id42.4"></a>Removal of solicitor who has ceased to act on application of another party</h3>
<p><strong>42.4</strong></p>
<p>(1) Where –</p>
<p>(a) a solicitor who has acted for a party –</p>
<p>(i) has died;</p>
<p>(ii) has become bankrupt;</p>
<p>(iii) has ceased to practice; or</p>
<p>(iv) cannot be found; and</p>
<p>(b) the party has not given notice of a change of solicitor or notice of intention to act in person as required by rule 42.2(2),</p>
<p>any other party may apply for an order declaring that the solicitor has ceased to be the solicitor acting for the other party in the case.</p>
<p>(2) Where an application is made under this rule, notice of the application must be given to the party to whose solicitor the application relates unless the court directs otherwise.</p>
<p>(3) Where the court makes an order made under this rule –</p>
<p>(a) a copy of the order must be served on every other party to the proceedings; and</p>
<p>(b) where it is served by a party, that party must file a certificate of service.</p>
<h2>Footnotes</h2>
<ol>
<li><a id="idfn1"></a>S.I. 2000/441. <a href="#idtext1">Back to text</a></li>
<li><a id="idfn2"></a>S.I. 1989/339 to which there are amendments not relevant to these Rules. <a href="#idtext2">Back to text</a></li>
<li><a id="idfn3"></a>1999 c.22. <a href="#idtext3">Back to text</a><br/></li>
</ol>
<p><br/></p>
</body></html>