<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 45 - FIXED COSTS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 45 - FIXED COSTS</h1>
<h1><span class="preTitleText">This Practice Direction supplements Part 45</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="pdblock">
<h2>SECTION I – FIXED COSTS </h2>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Fixed costs in small claims</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Under Rule 27.14 the costs which can be awarded to a claimant in a small claim include the fixed costs payable under Part 45 attributable to issuing the claim.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Those fixed costs are the sum of –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the fixed commencement costs calculated in accordance with Table 1 of Rule 45.2;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the appropriate court fee or fees paid by the claimant.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Claims to which Part 45 does not apply</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">1.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">In a claim to which Part 45 does not apply, no amount shall be entered on the claim form for the charges of the claimant&#39;s legal representative, but the words ‘to be assessed’ shall be inserted.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdblock">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">SECTION II – ROAD TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS: FIXED RECOVERABLE COSTS IN COSTS-ONLY PROCEEDINGS</h2>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Section II of Part 45 (‘the Section’) provides for certain fixed costs to be recoverable between parties in respect of costs incurred in disputes which are settled prior to proceedings being issued. The Section applies to road traffic accident disputes as defined in rule 45.9(4)(a), where the accident which gave rise to the dispute occurred on or after 6th October 2003.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The Section does not apply to disputes where the total agreed value of the damages is within the small claims limit or exceeds £10,000. Rule 26.8(2) sets out how the financial value of a claim is assessed for the purposes of allocation to track.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Fixed recoverable costs are to be calculated by reference to the amount of agreed damages which are payable to the receiving party. In calculating the amount of these damages –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">account must be taken of both general and special damages and interest;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">any interim payments made must be included;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">where the parties have agreed an element of contributory negligence, the amount of damages attributed to that negligence must be deducted;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">any amount required by statute to be paid by the compensating party directly to a third party (such as sums paid by way of compensation recovery payments and National Health Service expenses) must not be included.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.4</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The Section applies to cases which fall within the scope of the Uninsured Drivers Agreement dated 13 August 1999. The section does not apply to cases which fall within the scope of the Untraced Drivers Agreement dated 14 February 2003.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Fixed recoverable costs formula</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.5</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The amount of fixed costs recoverable is the sum of –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">£800;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">20% of the agreed damages up to £5,000; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">15% of the agreed damages between £5,000 and £10,000.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<p><span class="text">For example, agreed damages of £7,523 would result in recoverable costs of £2,178.45 i.e.</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">£800 + (20% of £5,000) + (15% of £2,523).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Additional costs for work in specified areas</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.6</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The area referred to in rules 45.11(2) and 45.18(5) consists of (within London) the county court districts of Barnet, Bow, Brentford, Central London, Clerkenwell and Shoreditch, Edmonton, Ilford, Lambeth, Mayors and City of London, Romford, Wandsworth, West London, Willesden and Woolwich and (outside London) the county court districts of Bromley, Croydon, Dartford, Gravesend and Uxbridge.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Multiple claimants</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.7</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where two or more potential claimants instruct the same legal representative, the provisions of the section apply in respect of each claimant.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Information to be included in the claim form</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.8</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Costs only proceedings are commenced using the procedure set out in rule 46.14. A claim form should be issued in accordance with Part 8. Where the claimant is claiming an amount of costs which exceed the amount of the fixed recoverable costs the claim form must give details of the exceptional circumstances to justify the additional costs.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.9</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The claimant must also include on the claim form details of any disbursements. The disbursements that may be claimed are set out in rule 45.12(1). If the disbursement falls within 45.12(2)(c) (disbursements that have arisen due to a particular feature of the dispute) the claimant must give details of the particular feature of the dispute that made the disbursement necessary.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Disbursements</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">2.10</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">If the parties agree the amount of the fixed recoverable costs and the only dispute is as to the payment of, or amount of, a disbursement, then proceedings should be issued under rule 46.14.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdblock">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">SECTION IV – SCALE COSTS FOR PROCEEDINGS IN A PATENTS COUNTY COURT</h2>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Tables A and B</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Tables A and B set out the maximum amount of scale costs which the court will award for each stage of a claim in a patents county court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">3.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Table A sets out the scale costs for each stage of a claim up to determination of liability.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">3.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Table B sets out the scale costs for each stage of an inquiry as to damages or account of profits.</span></p>
<div class="tabular">
<h4 class="tablenumber">Table A</h4>
</div>
<div class="tabular">
<h4 class="tablenumber">Table B</h4>
</div>
<div class="tabular">
&nbsp;
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdblock">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">SECTION VI – FAST TRACK TRIAL COSTS</h2>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Section VI of Part 45 applies to the costs of an advocate for preparing for and appearing at the trial of a claim in the fast track.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">It applies only where, at the date of the trial, the claim is allocated to the fast track. It does not apply in any other case, irrespective of the final value of the claim.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">4.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">In particular it does not apply to a disposal hearing at which the amount to be paid under a judgment or order is decided by the court (see paragraph 12.4 of Practice Direction 26)).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdblock">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">SECTION VII – COSTS LIMITS IN AARHUS CONVENTION CLAIMS</h2>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Limit on costs recoverable from a party in an Aarhus Convention claim: Rule 45.43</h3>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where a claimant is ordered to pay costs, the amount specified for the purpose of rule 45.43(1) is –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">£5,000 where the claimant is claiming only as an individual and not as, or on behalf of, a business or other legal person;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">in all other cases, £10,000.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where a defendant is ordered to pay costs, the amount specified for the purpose of rule 45.43(1) is £35,000.<br></span></p>
<h2><span class="text"><strong></strong>SECTION VIII - CLAIMS WHICH NO LONGER CONTINUE UNDER THE RTA OR EL/PL PROTOCOLS - DISBURSEMENTS</span></h2>
<h3><span class="text"><strong></strong>Claims for loss of earnings: Rule 45.29I(2)(g)</span></h3>
<h4><span class="text">6.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Where, under rule 45.29I(2)(g) (loss of earnings), the court allows a claim for any loss of earnings or leave by a party or witness due to attending a hearing or staying away from home for the purpose of attending a hearing, the specified sums, per day, for each person are-</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(a) £90, where the value of the claim for damages is not more that £10,000; and</span></p>
<p>(b) £135, where the value of the claim for damages is more that £10,000.&nbsp;</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>