<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 3E - COSTS MANAGEMENT</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 3E - COSTS MANAGEMENT</h1>
<h2>This Practice Direction supplements Section II of CPR Part 3</h2>Contents of this Practice Direction
&nbsp;<br>
<h3>Budget format</h3>
<p><strong>1</strong> Unless the court otherwise orders, a budget must be in the form of Precedent H annexed to this Practice Direction. It must be in landscape format with an easily legible typeface. In substantial cases, the court may direct that budgets be limited initially to part only of the proceedings and subsequently extended to cover the whole proceedings. A budget must be dated and verified by a statement of truth signed by a senior legal representative of the party. In cases where a party&#39;s budgeted costs do not exceed £25,000, there is no obligation on that party to complete more than the first page of Precedent H.<br>
<br>
(The wording for a statement of truth verifying a budget is set out in Practice Direction 22.)</p>
<h3>Costs management orders</h3>
<p><strong>2.1</strong> If the court makes a costs management order under rule 3.15, the following paragraphs apply.</p>
<p><strong>2.2</strong> Save in exceptional circumstances –<br>
<br>
(1) the recoverable costs of initially completing Precedent H shall not exceed the higher of £1,000 or 1% of the approved budget;<br>
<br>
(2) All other recoverable costs of the budgeting and costs management process shall not exceed 2% of the approved budget.</p>
<p><strong>2.3</strong> If the budgets or parts of the budgets are agreed between all parties, the court will record the extent of such agreement. In so far as the budgets are not agreed, the court will review them and, after making any appropriate revisions, record its approval of those budgets. The court&#39;s approval will relate only to the total figures for each phase of the proceedings, although in the course of its review the court may have regard to the constituent elements of each total figure. When reviewing budgets, the court will not undertake a detailed assessment in advance, but rather will consider whether the budgeted costs fall within the range of reasonable and proportionate costs.</p>
<p><strong>2.4</strong> As part of the costs management process the court may not approve costs incurred before the date of any budget. The court may, however, record its comments on those costs and should take those costs into account when considering the reasonableness and proportionality of all subsequent costs.</p>
<p><strong>2.5</strong> The court may set a timetable or give other directions for future reviews of budgets.</p>
<p><strong>2.6</strong> Each party shall revise its budget in respect of future costs upwards or downwards, if significant developments in the litigation warrant such revisions.<br>
<br>
Such amended budgets shall be submitted to the other parties for agreement. In default of agreement, the amended budgets shall be submitted to the court, together with a note of (a) the changes made and the reasons for those changes and (b) the objections of any other party. The court may approve, vary or disapprove the revisions, having regard to any significant developments which have occurred since the date when the previous budget was approved or agreed.</p>
<p><strong>2.7</strong> After its budget has been approved, each party shall re-file and re-serve the budget in the form approved with re-cast figures, annexed to the order approving it.</p>
<p><strong>2.8</strong> A litigant in person, even though not required to prepare a budget, shall nevertheless be provided with a copy of the budget of any other party.</p>
<p><strong>2.9</strong> If interim applications are made which, reasonably, were not included in a budget, then the costs of such interim applications shall be treated as additional to the approved budgets.</p>
<h3>Annex<br></h3>
<p><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/downloads/courts/cpr/pd3e-precedent-h.xls">Precedent H</a> (xls file - opens in new window)<br>
<br>
<a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd3e_pdf_eps/pd3e_precedent-h_notes.pdf">Guidance Notes for Precedent H</a> (PDF - opens in new window)<br>
<br></p>
</body></html>