<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 78 – EUROPEAN PROCEDURES</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 78 – EUROPEAN PROCEDURES</h1>
<div>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText">This Practice Direction supplements CPR Part 78</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">EOP Regulation and application of the Civil Procedure Rules</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">EOP applications are primarily governed by the EOP Regulation. Where the EOP Regulation is silent, the Civil Procedure Rules apply with necessary modifications.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.3 – Application for a European order for payment</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An EOP application form A must be –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">completed in English or accompanied by a translation into English; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">filed at court in person or by post.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An EOP application made to the High Court will be assigned to the Queen&#39;s Bench Division, but that will not prevent the application being transferred where appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Filing documents at court other than the EOP application form A</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Documents other than the EOP application form A that are filed at or sent to the court in the EOP proceedings, including statements of opposition, may be filed, in addition to by post or in person, by –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">fax; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">other electronic means where the facilities are available.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Service</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the EOP Regulation is silent on service, the Service Regulation and the Civil Procedure Rules apply as appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Article 9 of the EOP Regulation – completion or rectification of the EOP application form A</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Article 9 of the EOP Regulation makes provision for the completion or rectification of the EOP application form A within a specified time.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The time specified for the purposes of article 9 will normally be within 30 days of the date of the request by the court to complete or rectify the EOP application form A (using form B annexed to the EOP Regulation).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Applications under Part 23</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where an application is made under Section I of Part 78, there will not normally be an oral hearing.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where an oral hearing is to be held, it will normally take place by telephone or video conference.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.9 – Enforcement of European orders for payment</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When an EOP is filed at the High Court or county court in which enforcement proceedings are to be brought, it will be assigned a case number.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A copy of a document will satisfy the conditions necessary to establish its authenticity if it is an official copy of the court of origin.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If judgment is set aside in the court of origin, the judgment creditor must notify all courts in which enforcement proceedings are pending in England and Wales under the EOP as soon as reasonably practicable after the order is served on the judgment creditor. Notification may be by any means available including fax, e-mail, post or telephone.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.10 – An application for refusal of enforcement</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application must be accompanied by an official copy of the earlier judgment, any other documents relied upon and any translations required by the EOP Regulation.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the applicant relies on article 22(1) of the EOP Regulation, the application must be supported by written evidence showing –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">why the earlier judgment is irreconcilable with the judgment which the claimant is seeking to enforce; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">why the irreconcilability was not, and could not have been, raised as an objection in the proceedings in the court of origin.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the applicant relies on article 22(2), the application must be supported by written evidence of the extent to which the defendant has paid the claimant the amount awarded in the EOP.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.11 – Stay of or limitation on enforcement</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless the court orders otherwise, an application must be accompanied by evidence of the review application in the court of origin, including –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the review application or a copy of the review application certified by an appropriate officer of the court of origin; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">where that document is not in English, a translation of it into English.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The written evidence in support of the application must state –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">that a review application has been brought in the Member State of origin;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the nature of that review application; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the date on which the review application was filed, the stage the application has reached and the date by which it is believed that the application will be determined.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">ESCP Regulation and application of the Civil Procedure Rules</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Claims under the ESCP are primarily governed by the ESCP Regulation. Where the ESCP Regulation is silent, the Civil Procedure Rules apply with necessary modifications. In particular, Part 52 applies to any appeals.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.13 – Filing an ESCP claim form</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An ESCP claim form must be filed at court in person or by post.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Article 4(4) of the ESCP Regulation - inadequate or insufficient information</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">12.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Article 4(4) of the ESCP Regulation makes provision for –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the completion or rectification of the claim form;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the supply of supplementary information or documents; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the withdrawal of the claim,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">within a specified time.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">12.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The time specified for the purposes of article 4(4) is within 30 days of the date of the request by the court to complete or rectify the claim form (using Form B annexed to the ESCP Regulation).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.14 – Allocation of ESCP claims</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">13.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Rule 78.14(1) provides that ESCP claims are treated as if they were allocated to the small claims track. However, rule 78.14(2) disapplies rule 27.14 on costs because recital 29 to the ESCP Regulation contains different provisions on costs.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">13.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Rule 26.6(1) (scope of the small claims track) is also disapplied because article 2(1) of the ESCP Regulation has a different financial limit.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Filing documents at court other than the ESCP claim form</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">14</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Documents other than the ESCP claim form that are filed at or sent to the court in the ESCP proceedings, including the defendant&#39;s response, may be filed, in addition to by post or in person, by –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">fax; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">other electronic means where the facilities are available.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Service</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">15</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the ESCP Regulation is silent on service, the Service Regulation and the Civil Procedure Rules apply as appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.17 – Transfer of proceedings where the defendant claims that the non-monetary claim exceeds the limit set in article 2(1) of the ESCP Regulation – article 5(5) of the ESCP Regulation</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">16.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Rule 78.17(7) applies to counterclaims as if the counterclaim were an ESCP claim because the second paragraph of article 5(7) of the ESCP Regulation applies certain provisions about claims in the ESCP Regulation, including article 5(5), to ESCP counterclaims.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">16.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Attention is also drawn to the first paragraph of article 5(7) of the ESCP Regulation (transfer of claim and counterclaim in certain circumstances).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Oral hearing under article 8 of the ESCP Regulation</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">17.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Attention is drawn to article 5(1) of the ESCP Regulation, which sets out limitations on when oral hearings may be held.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">17.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where an oral hearing is to be held, it will normally take place by telephone or video conference.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Applications under Part 23</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">18.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where an application is made under Section II of Part 78 there will not normally be an oral hearing.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">18.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where an oral hearing is to be held, it will normally take place by telephone or video conference.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.20 – Enforcement of an ESCP judgment</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">19.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When an ESCP judgment is filed at the High Court or county court in which enforcement proceedings are to be brought, it will be assigned a case number.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">19.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A copy of a document will satisfy the conditions necessary to establish its authenticity if it is an official copy of the courts of the Member State of judgment.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">19.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If judgment is set aside in the Member State of judgment, the judgment creditor must notify all courts in which proceedings are pending in England and Wales to enforce the ESCP judgment as soon as reasonably practicable after the order is served on the judgment creditor. Notification may be by any means available including fax, e-mail, post or telephone.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.21 – Application for refusal of enforcement</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">20.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application must be accompanied by an official copy of the earlier judgment, any other documents relied upon and any translations required by the ESCP Regulation.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">20.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The application must be supported by written evidence showing –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">why the earlier judgment is irreconcilable with the judgment which the claimant is seeking to enforce; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">why the irreconcilability was not, and could not have been, raised as an objection in the proceedings in the Member State of judgment.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.22 – Stay of or limitation on enforcement – application following application for review or where the judgment has been challenged</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">21.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This paragraph applies where a defendant makes an application under article 23 of the ESCP Regulation in circumstances where –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">an application for review has been made under article 18 (‘review application’); or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the defendant has challenged the judgment.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">21.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless the court orders otherwise, the application under article 23 must be accompanied by evidence of the review application or challenge in the Member State of judgment. This must include a copy of the document initiating the review application or challenge or a copy of the review application or challenge, certified by an appropriate officer of the court in the Member State of judgment.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">21.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where a document is not in English, it must be accompanied by a translation of it into English.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">21.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The written evidence in support of the application must state –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">that a review application or challenge has been brought in the Member State of judgment;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the nature of that review application or challenge; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the date on which the review application or challenge was filed, the state of the proceedings and the date by which it is believed that the application or challenge will be determined.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 78.24 Making a mediation settlement enforceable (mediation settlement enforcement orders)</h2>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">22.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where an application for a mediation settlement enforcement order is made under rule 78.24(1)(a) in accordance with Part 23, a copy of the application notice, mediation settlement agreement and evidence of explicit consent must be served on all parties to the mediation settlement agreement who are not also parties to the application.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">22.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where an application for a mediation settlement enforcement order is made under rule 78.24(1)(b) by the Part 8 procedure –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the claim form may be issued without naming a defendant; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">a copy of the claim form, mediation settlement agreement and evidence of explicit consent must be served on all parties to the mediation settlement agreement who are not also parties to the application.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">22.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">No document relating to an application for a mediation settlement enforcement order may be inspected by a person who is not a party to the proceedings under rule 5.4C without the permission of the court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">22.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the application is supported by evidence of explicit consent to the application by a party to the mediation settlement agreement, the evidence must be in English or accompanied by a translation into English.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">22.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where a party to the mediation settlement agreement writes to the court consenting to the making of the mediation settlement enforcement order, the correspondence must be in English or accompanied by a translation into English.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">22.6</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the parties to pending proceedings agree to apply for a mediation settlement enforcement order, they must inform the court immediately.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Annex 1</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id6426520" title="pd78 eop pdf" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd78_pdf_eps/pd78_eop.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink" name="id6426520">The EOP Regulation (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Annex 2</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id6426521" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd78_pdf_eps/pd78_escp.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink" name="id6426521">The ESCP Regulation (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Annex 3</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="id6518103" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd78_pdf_eps/pd78_eudm.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink" name="id6518103">EU Directive on Mediation (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>