<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 70 - GENERAL RULES ABOUT ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS AND ORDERS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 70 - GENERAL RULES ABOUT ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS AND ORDERS</h1>
<div>
<a id="idid4541512" class="anchor"></a><a id="idBack-to-top"></a>
<div class="contentsBlock">
<table class="contentsTable">
<caption>
Contents of this Part
</caption>
<colgroup span="1">
<col span="1"/>
<col span="1"/>
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Title</th>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Number</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDA3JMCC">Scope of this Part and interpretation</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Rule&nbsp;70.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAXNMCC">Methods of enforcing judgments or orders</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Rule&nbsp;70.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDARPMCC">Transfer of proceedings for enforcement</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Rule&nbsp;70.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDA0A0HC">Enforcement of judgment or order by or against non-party</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Rule&nbsp;70.4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAQB0HC">Enforcement of decisions of bodies other than the High Court and county courts and compromises enforceable by enactment</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Rule&nbsp;70.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAGK0HC">Effect of setting aside judgment or order</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Rule&nbsp;70.6</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div><a id="idIDA3JMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="section">
<a id="idid4541515" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Part and interpretation</h2><a id="idid4820774" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">70.1</span></h3><a id="idIDAIKMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Part contains general rules about enforcement of judgments and orders.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Rules about specific methods of enforcement are contained in Parts 71 to 73, Schedule 1 RSC Orders 45 to 47 and 52 and Schedule 2 CCR Orders 25 to 29)</span></p>
<a id="idIDAYKMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idid6171578" class="anchor"></a>
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Part and in Parts 71 to 73 –</span></p>
<a id="idIDABLMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idid4810061" class="anchor"></a>
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">‘judgment creditor’ means a person who has obtained or is entitled to enforce a judgment or order;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDANLMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idid4810131" class="anchor"></a>
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">‘judgment debtor’ means a person against whom a judgment or order was given or made;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAZLMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">‘judgment or order’ includes an award which the court has –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAAMMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">registered for enforcement;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAOMMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">ordered to be enforced; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAYMMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">given permission to enforce</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">as if it were a judgment or order of the court, and in relation to such an award, ‘the court which made the judgment or order’ means the court which registered the award or made such an order; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAHNMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">‘judgment or order for the payment of money’ includes a judgment or order for the payment of costs, but does not include a judgment or order for the payment of money into court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAXNMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="section">
<a id="idid4541516" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Methods of enforcing judgments or orders</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">70.2</span></h3><a id="idIDAAOMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idid6508152" class="anchor"></a>
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Practice Direction 70 sets out methods of enforcing judgments or orders for the payment of money.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAQOMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A judgment creditor may, except where an enactment, rule or practice direction provides otherwise –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAXOMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">use any method of enforcement which is available; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDABPMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">use more than one method of enforcement, either at the same time or one after another.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDARPMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="section">
<a id="idid4541517" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Transfer of proceedings for enforcement</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">70.3</span></h3><a id="idIDA0PMCC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A judgment creditor wishing to enforce a High Court judgment or order in a county court must apply to the High Court for an order transferring the proceedings to that county court.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAHA0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A practice direction may make provisions about the transfer of proceedings for enforcement.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(CCR Order 25 rule 13 contains provisions about the transfer of county court proceedings to the High Court for enforcement.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDA0A0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="section">
<a id="idid4541518" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Enforcement of judgment or order by or against non-party</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">70.4</span></h3><a id="idIDADB0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">If a judgment or order is given or made in favour of or against a person who is not a party to proceedings, it may be enforced by or against that person by the same methods as if he were a party.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAQB0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="section">
<a id="idid4541520" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Enforcement of decisions of bodies other than the High Court and county courts and compromises enforceable by enactment</h2><a id="idid4820776" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">70.5</span></h3><a id="idIDA1B0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This rule applies, subject to paragraph (2), where an enactment provides that –</span></p>
<a id="idIDACC0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a decision of a court, tribunal, body or person other than the High Court or a county court; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAMC0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a compromise,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">may be enforced as if it were a court order or that any sum of money payable under that decision or compromise may be recoverable as if payable under a court order.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA0C0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">This rule does not apply to –</span></p>
<a id="idIDABD0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">any judgment to which Part 74 applies;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDALD0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">arbitration awards;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAVD0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">any order to which RSC Order 115 applies; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA5D0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">proceedings to which Part 75 (traffic enforcement) applies.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAKE0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idid6508154" class="anchor"></a>
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2A)</span> <span class="text">Unless paragraph (3) applies, a party may enforce the decision or compromise by applying for a specific method of enforcement under Parts 71 to 73, Schedule 1 RSC Orders 45 to 47 and 52 and Schedule 2 CCR Orders 25 to 29 and must –</span></p>
<a id="idIDATE0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">file with the court a copy of the decision or compromise being enforced; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA2E0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">provide the court with the information required by Practice Direction 70.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDALF0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">If an enactment provides that a decision or compromise is enforceable or a sum of money is recoverable if a court so orders, an application for such an order must be made in accordance with paragraphs (4) to (7A) of this rule.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAVF0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The application –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA2F0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may, unless paragraph (4A) applies, be made without notice; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAGG0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">must be made to the court for the district where the person against whom the order is sought, resides or carries on business, unless the court otherwise orders.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDATG0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4A)</span> <span class="text">Where a compromise requires a person to whom a sum of money is payable under the compromise to do anything in addition to discontinuing or not starting proceedings (‘a conditional compromise’), an application under paragraph (4) must be made on notice.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA2G0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">The application notice must –</span></p>
<a id="idIDADH0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">be in the form; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDANH0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">contain the information</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">required by Practice Direction 70.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDADI0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">A copy of the decision or compromise must be filed with the application notice.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDANI0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">An application other than in relation to a conditional compromise may be dealt with by a court officer without a hearing.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAXI0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7A)</span> <span class="text">Where an application relates to a conditional compromise, the respondent may oppose it by filing a response within 14 days of service of the application notice and if the respondent –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA4I0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">does not file a response within the time allowed, the court will make the order; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAHJ0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">files a response within the time allowed, the court will make such order as appears appropriate.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDATJ0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(8)</span> <span class="text">If an enactment provides that a decision or compromise may be enforced in the same manner as an order of the High Court if it is registered, any application to the High Court for registration must be made in accordance with Practice Direction 70.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a id="idIDAGK0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="section">
<a id="idid4541521" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Effect of setting aside judgment or order</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">70.6</span></h3><a id="idIDAPK0HC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">If a judgment or order is set aside, any enforcement of the judgment or order shall cease to have effect unless the court otherwise orders.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>