<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 5C – ELECTRONIC WORKING SCHEME</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 5C – ELECTRONIC WORKING SCHEME</h1>
<h2><a id="idBack-to-top"></a>This Practice Direction supplements CPR rules 5.5 and 7.12</h2>
<p>Contents of this Practice Direction</p>
<table style="width: 100%;" border="1" cellpadding="2">
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Title</th>
<th>Number</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id1.1">General</a></td>
<td>Para. 1.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id2.1">Security</a></td>
<td>Para. 2.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id3.1">Fees</a><br/></td>
<td>Para. 3.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id4.1">Forms</a></td>
<td>Para. 4.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id5">Scope of electronic working</a></td>
<td>Para. 5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id6.1">Starting a claim</a></td>
<td>Para. 6.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id7.1">Electronic working response</a></td>
<td>Para. 7.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id8.1">Statement of truth</a></td>
<td>Para. 8.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id9">Signature</a></td>
<td>Para. 9</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id10.1">Request for judgment or issue of warrant</a></td>
<td>Para. 10.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id11.1">Inspecting the case record</a></td>
<td>Para. 11.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id12">Applications in proceedings</a></td>
<td>Para. 12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id13.1">Allocation and case management</a></td>
<td>Para. 13.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id14.1">Trial bundles</a></td>
<td>Para. 14.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.1">Transfer of proceedings</a></td>
<td>Para. 15.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id16.1">Public kiosk service</a></td>
<td>Para. 16.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id17.1">Scanning documents filed in paper format</a></td>
<td>Para. 17.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idAnnex">Annex</a></td>
<td><br/></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3><a id="id1.1"></a>General</h3>
<p><strong>1.1</strong></p>
<p>(1) This Practice Direction is made under rules 5.5 and 7.12 of the Civil Procedure Rules (‘CPR’). It provides for a scheme (‘Electronic Working’) to –</p>
<p>(a) operate from 1st April 2010;</p>
<p>(b) operate in the Admiralty, Commercial and London Mercantile Courts, the Technology and Construction Court, and the Chancery Division of the High Court at the Royal Courts of Justice, including in the case of the Chancery Division the Patents Court and the Bankruptcy and Companies courts. It is intended that this Practice Direction should continue to apply to those jurisdictions when they transfer to the Rolls Building, and to the Bankruptcy jurisdiction of the Central London County Court (the Rolls Building jurisdictions); and</p>
<p>(c)</p>
<p>(i) apply to claims started on or after 1st April 2010; and</p>
<p>(ii) apply to claims started or continued electronically under the Electronic Working Pilot Scheme between 1st April 2009 and 31st March 2010.</p>
<p>(2) Where the provisions of this Practice Direction conflict with the provisions of Practice Direction 5B this Practice Direction shall take precedence.</p>
<p>(3) In this Practice Direction‘document key’ means the unique alpha-numeric identifier set out on the court form to obtain the relevant document where there is no electronic link.</p>
<p><strong>1.2</strong></p>
<p>(1) This Practice Direction provides for a scheme of electronic working by which –</p>
<p>(a) proceedings may be started and all subsequent steps may be taken electronically; and</p>
<p>(b) proceedings which have not been started electronically, may be continued electronically after documents in paper format in those proceedings have been converted to an electronic format by means of a scanning procedure by the Court and the proceedings shall then continue under the scheme as if they had been started electronically.</p>
<p>(2) As an electronic system, the Electronic Working scheme will operate 24 hours a day all year round, including weekends and bank holidays. This will enable claim forms to be issued and documents to be filed in electronic format out of normal court office opening hours. However, there will be two exceptions to this –</p>
<p>(a) planned ‘down-time’: as with all electronic systems, there will be some planned periods for system maintenance and upgrades when Electronic Working will not be available; and</p>
<p>(b) unplanned ‘down-time’: in the event of unplanned periods during which Electronic Working will not be available due, for example, to a system failure or power outage.</p>
<p><strong>1.3</strong> The Electronic Working scheme will be subject to the following provisions of the CPR, unless specifically excluded or revised by this Practice Direction:</p>
<p>Part 57 (Probate Actions)</p>
<p>Part 58 (Commercial Court claims)</p>
<p>Part 59 (Mercantile Court claims)</p>
<p>Part 60 (Technology and Construction Court claims)</p>
<p>Part 61 (Admiralty claims)</p>
<p>Part 62 (Arbitration claims)</p>
<p>Part 63 (Patent claims)</p>
<p>(Litigants will need to give careful consideration to:</p>
<p>The Chancery Guide</p>
<p>The Queen’s Bench Division Guide</p>
<p>The Admiralty and Commercial Courts Guide</p>
<p>The Technology and Construction Court Guide</p>
<p>and The Patents Court Guide)</p>
<p><strong>1.4</strong></p>
<p>(1) This Practice Direction enables claimants to start or continue electronically claims in the Rolls Building jurisdictions.</p>
<p>(2) Where a claim has been started or is continuing electronically any party may file electronically all forms and documents, using where necessary, the multi purpose form.</p>
<p><strong>1.5</strong> Any form or document which is filed electronically –</p>
<p>(a) must not be filed in paper format unless this is required by a court order, rule, or practice direction;</p>
<p>(b) must consist of one copy only with no further copies unless required by a court order, rule or practice direction; and</p>
<p>(c) will receive an automated response to acknowledge receipt.</p>
<p><strong>1.6</strong></p>
<p>(1) Persons wishing to use the Electronic Working scheme are required, wherever possible, to communicate with the court by means of e-mail. For the purposes of e-mail communications a person using the Electronic Working scheme must –</p>
<p>(a) provide the court with at least one and not more than three e-mail address(es) at which that person can be contacted;</p>
<p>(b) use the e-mail address provided by the court to file documents at the court; and</p>
<p>(c) use the document keys where provided by the court, to populate the subject line of the e-mail or use the electronic link to obtain the relevant document.</p>
<p>(2) Where persons using the Electronic Working scheme include their e-mail address on any court form, document or statement of case this is not confirmation or agreement that they are prepared to accept service by e-mail of documents between the parties to the proceedings unless they expressly agree to do so. Paragraph 4.1(2)(c) of Practice Direction 6A does not apply.</p>
<p><strong>1.7</strong></p>
<p>(1) A claim filed electronically under the Electronic Working scheme will be issued by the Admiralty Court, the Commercial Court, the London Mercantile Court, the Technology and Construction Court, or the Chancery Division of the High Court as appropriate and the claim will proceed in that court unless it is transferred to another court.</p>
<p>(2) If the claim is transferred to another court which is not operating the Electronic Working scheme it will come out of the scheme and this Practice Direction shall not apply to the proceedings in relation to any step taken after the date of transfer.</p>
<p>(Paragraph 15 contains further provisions about the transfer of proceedings.)</p>
<p><strong>1.8</strong> Unless the court orders otherwise, any form, statement of case, document or order issued or filed by any party under the Rolls Building jurisdiction whether in electronic or paper format, which is required to be served shall be served by the party who requested it.</p>
<h3><a id="id2.1"></a>Security</h3>
<p><strong>2.1</strong> Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service will take such measures as it thinks fit to ensure the security of steps taken or information communicated or stored electronically. These may include requiring persons using Electronic Working to –</p>
<p>(1) enter a customer identification and/or password;</p>
<p>(2) provide personal information for identification purposes; and</p>
<p>(3) comply with any other security measures, as may from time to time be required before taking any of the steps mentioned in paragraph 1. 4 or 1.5.</p>
<p><strong>2.2</strong> Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service may provide such method of encryption to promote security of e-mail communications as may be deemed appropriate.</p>
<p>(Paragraph 8.7 of Practice Direction 5B (Electronic communications and filing of documents) contains provisions concerning the transmission of documents or correspondence electronically.)</p>
<h3><a id="id3.1"></a>Fees</h3>
<p><strong>3.1</strong> Where this Practice Direction provides for a fee to be paid, it may be paid by any method which Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service may permit including any online or offline payment facility.</p>
<p><strong>3.2</strong> In certain circumstances, a party may be entitled to a remission or part remission of fees. Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service website contains guidance as to when this entitlement might arise. A party, who wishes to apply for remission or part remission of fees, must do so prior to taking any step which requires a fee to be paid.</p>
<p><strong>3.3</strong></p>
<p>(1) On issuing or filing electronically any form or document which requires the payment of a fee, the person issuing or filing that document shall –</p>
<p>(a) pay the appropriate fee; or</p>
<p>(b) apply for fee remission in accordance with paragraph 3.2.</p>
<p>(2) The form or document will be subject to an initial automated validation to ensure all mandatory fields have been completed.</p>
<p>(3) Once validated the form or document will be issued, sealed where appropriate, and returned to the person filing or requesting the issue of the same.</p>
<p>(Paragraph 7 contains provisions about the filing of counterclaims and other Part 20 claims)</p>
<h3><a id="id4.1"></a>Forms</h3>
<p><strong>4.1</strong> Persons using the Electronic Working scheme must ensure that all forms, documents, schedules and other attachments filed at court are in PDF format.</p>
<p><strong>4.2</strong> Persons using the Electronic Working scheme must, where they are available, use the PDF forms which have been created by Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service specifically for Electronic Working.</p>
<p><strong>4.3</strong> Persons using the Electronic Working scheme and wishing to file any document which has not been created specifically for Electronic Working must before filing that document –</p>
<p>(1) convert the document to PDF format if it is already in an electronic form or if it is only available in paper copy scan the document into PDF format; and</p>
<p>(2) attach the document to the multi purpose form for that case which has been created specifically for Electronic Working.</p>
<h3><a id="id5"></a>Scope of electronic working</h3>
<p><strong>5</strong> The Electronic Working scheme may be used to start claims pursuant to Part 7, Part 8 and Part 20 and also Arbitration claims and Admiralty proceedings as appropriate in the Admiralty and Commercial Court, the London Mercantile Court, the Technology and Construction Court, and in the Chancery Division of the High Court.</p>
<h3><a id="id6.1"></a>Starting a claim&nbsp;</h3>
<p><strong>6.1</strong> A claimant may request the issue of a claim form by –</p>
<p>(a) obtaining the electronic claim form from Her Majesty&#39;s Courts and Tribunals Service in the following manner –</p>
<p>(i) typing in the form number the claimant requires in the subject line of an e-mail; and</p>
<p>(ii) sending the e-mail to getform@justice.gsi.gov.uk;</p>
<p>(b) completing and sending the electronic claim form and such other forms or documents as may be required to start the claim by e-mail to submit@justice.gsi.gov.uk; and</p>
<p>(c) paying the appropriate issue fee.</p>
<p>(The Annex to this Practice Direction lists and contains relevant forms)</p>
<p><strong>6.2</strong> The particulars of claim may be included in or attached to the electronic claim form, or may be filed separately in accordance with rules 58.5, 59.4, 61.3 or 7.4, where applicable, by attaching the particulars of claim to the electronic multi purpose form.</p>
<p><strong>6.3</strong> When a claim form is received electronically at the address provided by the court –</p>
<p>(1) subject to the automated validation referred to in paragraph 3.3, the claim form will be issued, sealed and returned to the claimant for service; but</p>
<p>(2) if the form fails the automated validation it will be returned to the claimant together with notice of the reasons for failure.</p>
<p><strong>6.4</strong></p>
<p>(1) The court will accept receipt of claim forms filed through Electronic Working out of normal court office opening hours. Claim forms received by the court up to midnight will bear the date they are received as the issue date.</p>
<p>(2) When the court issues a claim form through Electronic Working following a validated request under paragraphs 6.1 and 6.3 –</p>
<p>(a) the court will seal the claim form with the date on which the claim form was received by the court through Electronic Working and this shall be the issue date; and</p>
<p>(b) the court will keep a record of when claim forms filed through Electronic Working are received.</p>
<p>(Paragraph 1.2(2) contains provisions about system ‘down-time’ which may prevent immediate issue of claim forms.)</p>
<p><strong>6.5</strong></p>
<p>(1) When the court issues a claim form through Electronic Working the court will –</p>
<p>(a) return an electronic sealed version in PDF format for service by the claimant; and</p>
<p>(b) return a further electronic version in PDF format which must be retained by the claimant in case the form needs to be amended.</p>
<p>(2) It is a party’s responsibility to print and serve any form requiring service by that party unless the party or parties to be served have agreed to accept service by email or other electronic means.</p>
<p>(Paragraph 1.6(2) contains provisions for service by email and paragraph 1.8 contains provisions about the service of forms and documents.)</p>
<p><strong>6.6</strong> A document key or electronic link will be printed on the sealed claim form and this will allow the party by whom it is served to obtain and file the acknowledgment of service through Electronic Working, together with other document keys or electronic links which will then allow the parties to obtain other forms required for the purposes of the proceedings.</p>
<h3><a id="id7.1"></a>Electronic working response</h3>
<p><strong>7.1</strong> A party wishing to file –</p>
<p>(a) an acknowledgment of service under Part 10;</p>
<p>(b) an admission or part admission;</p>
<p>(c) a defence or defence and counterclaim under Part 15;</p>
<p>(d) a Part 20 claim; or</p>
<p>(e) any other document,</p>
<p>may obtain the Electronic Working version of the following documents or forms –</p>
<p>(i) requests for judgment on acceptance of an admission of the whole of the amount claimed;</p>
<p>(ii) statements of case and any amended statements of case;</p>
<p>(iii) requests for further information and any replies;</p>
<p>(iv) applications for an order, whether before or after the start of proceedings;</p>
<p>(v) witness statements or affidavits and exhibits;</p>
<p>(vi) draft orders and orders for sealing;</p>
<p>(vii) case summaries, lists of issues, chronologies, skeleton arguments, case management information sheets, progress monitoring information sheets, directions questionnaires where appropriate and pre-trial checklists;</p>
<p>(viii) statements of costs;</p>
<p>by using the document keys referred to in paragraph 6.6 and file the same electronically.</p>
<p><strong>7.2</strong> Where a party files a form or document through Electronic Working –</p>
<p>(a) the form or document is not filed until it is acknowledged as received by the court, notwithstanding when it may have been sent;</p>
<p>(b) the defendant may file forms and documents electronically through Electronic Working out of normal court office opening hours; and</p>
<p>(c) a form acknowledged as received electronically out of normal court office opening hours but before midnight will be treated as having been filed the same day.</p>
<p><strong>7.3</strong> When a document is issued or filed electronically by a party an automated response will be sent to acknowledge receipt.</p>
<p><strong>7.4</strong></p>
<p>(1) The electronic copy must –</p>
<p>(a) be filed electronically by email;</p>
<p>(b) be formatted as one PDF document with bookmarks for each document and where appropriate with section headings within the document;</p>
<p>(c) not exceed such size in megabytes as Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service may from time to time specify.</p>
<p>(2) In the event that the bundle exceeds the maximum limit in 1(c) it shall be filed on CD Rom, DVD, or such other removable storage media as may be acceptable to Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service.</p>
<h3><a id="id8.1"></a>Statement of truth</h3>
<p><strong>8.1</strong> Part 22 and Practice Direction 22 which requires certain documents and forms to be verified by a statement of truth shall apply to any Electronic Working forms filed electronically.</p>
<p><strong>8.2</strong> The statement of truth for documents and forms in Electronic Working must be in the form –</p>
<p>“[I believe][The claimant believes] that the facts stated in this claim form (or as the case may be) are true.”; or<br/></p>
<p>“[I believe][The defendant believes] that the facts stated in this defence (or as the case may be) are true.”, as appropriate.</p>
<p><strong>8.3</strong> Rule 32.14, which sets out the consequences of making, or causing to be made, a false statement in a document verified by a statement of truth without an honest belief in its truth, applies to any false statement in a statement of truth in a document filed electronically.</p>
<h3><a id="id9"></a>Signature</h3>
<p><strong>9</strong> Any provision of the CPR which requires a document (other than an affidavit) to be signed by any person is satisfied by that person or an authorised person typing his or her name on an electronic version of the form.</p>
<h3><a id="id10.1"></a>Request for judgment or issue of warrant</h3>
<p><strong>10.1</strong> If, in proceedings under the Electronic Working scheme –</p>
<p>(1) the claimant wishes to apply for judgment in default in accordance with Part 12; or</p>
<p>(2) the defendant has filed or served an admission of the whole of the claim in accordance with rule 14.4,</p>
<p>the claimant may request judgment to be entered in default or on the admission (as the case may be) by completing and sending the electronic version of the appropriate form to the e-mail address which will be provided to the parties.</p>
<p><strong>10.2</strong> When judgment has been entered following a request under paragraph 10.1 and the claimant is entitled to the issue of a warrant of execution without requiring the permission of the court, the claimant may request the issue of a warrant of execution by –</p>
<p>(1) completing and sending an Electronic Working request form to the e-mail address which will be provided by the court to the parties; and</p>
<p>(2) paying the appropriate fee in accordance with paragraph 3.1.</p>
<p><strong>10.3</strong> A request under paragraph 10.1 or 10.2 will be treated as being filed –</p>
<p>(1) on the day the court acknowledges receipt of the request, if it receives it before 10 a.m. on a working day (which is any day on which the court office is open);</p>
<p>(2) otherwise, on the next working day after the court receives the request.</p>
<h3><a id="id11.1"></a>Inspecting the case record</h3>
<p><strong>11.1</strong> The parties shall be entitled to inspect an electronic record of the proceedings and obtain documents in the electronic court file.</p>
<p>(Rule 5.4B contains provisions about the supply to a party to the proceedings of documents from the court record.)</p>
<p><strong>11.2</strong> The record of proceedings will be automatically updated.</p>
<p><strong>11.3</strong> Information concerning the availability of this facility under the Electronic Working scheme will be communicated by Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service in such manner as is deemed appropriate including the Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service website.</p>
<h3><a id="id12"></a>Applications in proceedings</h3>
<p><strong>12</strong></p>
<p>(1) Where prior to the commencement of, or in the course of proceedings under, the Electronic Working scheme a party to those proceedings issues an application for an order electronically, whether a hearing is required or not, the party issuing the application shall lodge an application bundle with the court.</p>
<p>(2) The application bundle must –</p>
<p>(a) be filed in both paper copy and electronic format;</p>
<p>(b) contain the application notice and the evidence in support, including exhibits together with such other documents as may be required by any rule, practice direction, order of the court or court guide; and</p>
<p>(c) be filed in accordance with the time limits required by any applicable rule, practice direction, or order of the court.</p>
<p>(3) The electronic copy must –</p>
<p>(a) be filed electronically by e-mail using the multi purpose form available to the parties;</p>
<p>(b) be formatted as one PDF document with bookmarks as appropriate for each document and with section headings within the document;</p>
<p>(c) not exceed such size in megabytes as Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service may from time to time specify; and</p>
<p>(d) be updated as required and filed in compliance with sub-paragraphs (a) to (c).</p>
<p>(4) In the event that the bundle exceeds the maximum limit in 3(c) it shall be filed on CD Rom, DVD, or such other removable storage media as may be acceptable to Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service.</p>
<p>(5) The copy in paper format should be indexed and should correspond exactly to the electronic version of the bundle including sequential pagination.</p>
<p>(6) Unless the judge otherwise directs the paper copy shall be returned to the parties at the conclusion of the hearing.</p>
<h3><a id="id13.1"></a>Allocation and case management&nbsp;</h3>
<p><strong>13.1</strong> Where a rule, practice direction or order of the court requires a directions questionnaire to be filed with the court and a party wishes to file the directions questionnaire electronically –</p>
<p>(1) the directions questionnaire together with any other forms required by a rule, practice direction, or order of the court must be filed in both paper and electronic format; and</p>
<p>(2) the paper copy of the directions questionnaire should be accompanied by other relevant documents including all statements of case, draft directions or case summaries and costs schedules in paper format.</p>
<p><strong>13.2</strong></p>
<p>(1) Where –</p>
<p>(a) a rule, practice direction, or order of the court requires:</p>
<p>(i) the court to give case management or other directions; or</p>
<p>(ii) a bundle to be filed with the court in connection with case management or other directions; and</p>
<p>(b) a party wishes to file the bundle electronically,</p>
<p>the bundle must contain –</p>
<p>(i) such documents as are required; and</p>
<p>(ii) in all Part 8 claims, the statements of case and evidence in support.</p>
<p>(2) The bundle must be filed in both paper copy and electronic format.</p>
<p>(3) The electronic copy must –</p>
<p>(a) be filed electronically by e-mail, using the multi purpose form available to the parties;</p>
<p>(b) be formatted as one PDF document with bookmarks for each document and where appropriate with section headings within the document;</p>
<p>(c) not exceed such size in megabytes as Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service may from time to time specify; and</p>
<p>(d) be updated as required and filed in compliance with sub-paragraphs (a) to (c).</p>
<p>(4) In the event that the bundle exceeds the maximum limit in 3(c) the electronic copy must be filed on CD Rom, DVD, or such other removable storage media as may be acceptable to Her Majesty’s Courts and Tribunals Service.</p>
<p>(5) The paper copy should be indexed and should correspond exactly with the electronic version of the bundle with sequential pagination.</p>
<p>(6) Unless the judge otherwise directs, the paper copy shall be returned to the parties at the conclusion of the hearing.</p>
<h3><a id="id14.1"></a>Trial bundles</h3>
<p><strong>14.1</strong> The trial bundle must be filed with the court in paper format.</p>
<p><strong>14.2</strong> An electronic version of the trial bundle must also be filed if the court so orders, in which case it must comply with the requirements of paragraph 13.2(3) and the paper copy must comply with paragraph 13.2(5).</p>
<p><strong>14.3</strong> The court will retain any electronic copy of the trial bundle for a period of two months after judgment has been delivered, after which it may be deleted.</p>
<p><strong>14.4</strong> The time in paragraph 14.3 may be extended by order of the court at the request of a party or on the court&#39;s own initiative.</p>
<h3><a id="id15.1"></a>Transfer of proceedings</h3>
<p><strong>15.1</strong> If proceedings under the Electronic Working scheme are subsequently transferred to a court not operating under the scheme the parties must ensure that a version of the court file in paper format is made available to that court.</p>
<p><strong>15.2</strong> If proceedings which have not been started under the Electronic Working scheme are transferred to a court operating under the scheme all subsequent steps may be taken electronically after documents in paper format in those proceedings have been converted to an electronic format pursuant to paragraph 1.2(1)(b).</p>
<h3><a id="id16.1"></a>Public kiosk Service</h3>
<p><strong>16.1</strong> A version of the electronic court file allowing access only to those documents which are available to non-parties pursuant to rule 5.4C(1) or 5.4C(1A) and subject to rule 5.4C(4) will be made available through a public kiosk service.</p>
<p>(Part 5 contains provisions about access to court documents by non-parties.)</p>
<p><strong>16.2</strong> Persons wishing to obtain copies of documents available to non-parties –</p>
<p>(1) may select the documents they require using the computer facilities provided by the public kiosk service; and</p>
<p>(2) must pay the appropriate fee.</p>
<p><strong>16.3</strong> Electronic copies of the documents will be sent by e-mail to an address supplied by the person applying for copies.</p>
<h3><a id="id17.1"></a>Scanning documents filed in paper format</h3>
<p><strong>17.1</strong> Proceedings issued after 1st April 2010 in the Admiralty and Commercial Court, the London Mercantile Court, the Technology and Construction Court, and the Chancery Division of the High Court will be stored by the court in electronic format. Any claims which are not started by issuing a claim form electronically will be converted to an electronic format by means of a scanning procedure by the court and the provisions of paragraph 1.2(1)(b) shall apply to those proceedings.</p>
<p><strong>17.2</strong> Documents which the parties wish to file with the court may be lodged either by using the Electronic Working scheme or by lodging copies in paper format.</p>
<p><strong>17.3</strong> In the event that a party lodges a document in paper format the court will –</p>
<p>(1) where appropriate seal the paper copy of the document;</p>
<p>(2) obtain payment of any fee due;</p>
<p>(3) enter the relevant information for the document onto an electronic equivalent to create or update an electronic working case file;</p>
<p>(4) convert the document to an electronic format and automatically attach this scanned copy to the electronic working case file;</p>
<p>(5) where the party filing has given an e-mail address, send by email to that address –</p>
<p>(a) a scanned image of the original document; and</p>
<p>(b) an electronic version of the document submitted on paper as entered onto the system by the Court; and</p>
<p>(6) return the sealed copy of the document originally lodged.</p>
<h3><a id="idAnnex"></a>Annex: Electronic Working Scheme Forms</h3>
<p>Claim forms and a Multi Purpose Form are attached for information.</p>
<p>All the electronic forms available for use under the scheme can be obtained from Her Majesty&#39;s Courts and Tribunals Service by:</p>
<p>(1) Typing in the form number required in the subject line of an email; and</p>
<p>(2) Sending the e-mail to getform@justice.gsi.gov.uk</p>
<p>Once the form has been completed it should be e-mailed to submit@justice.gsi.gov.uk</p>
<p><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd5c_pdf-and-eps/pd5c_ew-n1c.pdf">Claim Form (Chancery)</a> (PDF - opens in new window)</p>
<p><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd5c_pdf-and-eps/pd5c_ew-n1cc.pdf">Claim form (Admiralty and Commercial)</a> (PDF - opens in new window)</p>
<p><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd5c_pdf-and-eps/pd5c_ew-n1tcc.pdf">Claim form (Technology and Construction)</a> (PDF - opens in new window)</p>
<p><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd5c_pdf-and-eps/pd5c_ew-n208tcc.pdf">Non-Monetary Claim</a> (PDF - opens in new window)</p>
<p><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd5c_pdf-and-eps/pd5c_ew-multipurpose.pdf">Multi Purpose Form</a> (PDF - opens in new window)</p>
<p>The claim forms have references to the other relevant forms which are not listed here and these can also be obtained electronically.</p>
<p><br/></p>
</body></html>