<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 40E – RESERVED JUDGMENTS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 40E – RESERVED JUDGMENTS</h1>
<div>
<a id="idid6428827" class="anchor"></a>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="idid6426497" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part40/pd_part40d"></a></p>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText"><a id="idBack-to-top"></a>This Practice Direction supplements CPR Part 40</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
<table class="contentsTable">
<caption>
Contents of this Practice Direction
</caption>
<colgroup span="1">
<col span="1"/>
<col span="1"/>
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Title</th>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Number</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part40/pd_part40e#IDAQK21">Scope and interpretation</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;1.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part40/pd_part40e#IDAHM21">Availability of reserved judgments before handing down</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;2.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part40/pd_part40e#IDA0AC2">Corrections to the draft judgment</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;3.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part40/pd_part40e#IDAOBC2">Orders consequential on judgment</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;4.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/part40/pd_part40e#IDA2EC2">Attendance at handing down</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;5.1</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div><a id="idIDAPK21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idIDAQK21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope and interpretation</h2><a id="idIDATK21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This Practice Direction applies to all reserved judgments which the court intends to hand down in writing.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA5K21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In this Practice Direction –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAHL21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idIDAKL21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">‘relevant court office’ means the office of the court in which judgment is to be given; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDATL21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">‘working day’ means any day on which the relevant court office is open.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAEM21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid6428822" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDAHM21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Availability of reserved judgments before handing down</h2><a id="idIDAKM21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where judgment is to be reserved the judge (or Presiding Judge) may, at the conclusion of the hearing, invite the views of the parties’ legal representatives as to the arrangements made for the handing down of the judgment.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAWM21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6428651" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless the court directs otherwise, the following provisions of this paragraph apply where the judge or Presiding Judge is satisfied that the judgment will attract no special degree of confidentiality or sensitivity.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAEN21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6428654" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court will provide a copy of the draft judgment to the parties’ legal representatives by 4 p.m. on the second working day before handing down, or at such other time as the court may direct.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDASN21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A copy of the draft judgment may be supplied, in confidence, to the parties provided that –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA0N21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idIDA3N21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">neither the draft judgment nor its substance is disclosed to any other person or used in the public domain; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAGO21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">no action is taken (other than internally) in response to the draft judgment, before the judgment is handed down.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAUO21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where a copy of the draft judgment is supplied to a party’s legal representatives in electronic form, they may supply a copy to that party in the same form.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAAP21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.6</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If a party to whom a copy of the draft judgment is supplied under paragraph 2.4 is a partnership, company, government department, local authority or other organisation of a similar nature, additional copies may be distributed in confidence within the organisation, provided that all reasonable steps are taken to preserve its confidential nature and the requirements of paragraph 2.4 are adhered to.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAMP21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6428656" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.7</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the parties or their legal representatives are in any doubt about the persons to whom copies of the draft judgment may be distributed they should enquire of the judge or Presiding Judge.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA0P21" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.8</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Any breach of the obligations or restrictions under paragraph 2.4 or failure to take all reasonable steps under paragraph 2.6 may be treated as contempt of court.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAJAC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.9</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The case will be listed for judgment, and judgment handed down at the appropriate time.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAXAC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid6428658" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDA0AC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Corrections to the draft judgment</h2><a id="idIDA3AC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless the parties or their legal representatives are told otherwise when the draft judgment is circulated, any proposed corrections to the draft judgment should be sent to the clerk of the judge who prepared the draft with a copy to any other party.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDALBC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid6428830" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDAOBC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Orders consequential on judgment</h2><a id="idIDARBC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Following the circulation of the draft judgment the parties or their legal representatives must seek to agree orders consequential upon the judgment.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA3BC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In respect of any draft agreed order the parties must –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAFCC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idIDAICC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">fax or e-mail a copy to the clerk to the judge or Presiding Judge (together with any proposed corrections or amendments to the draft judgment); and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDARCC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">file four copies (with completed backsheets) in the relevant court office, by 12 noon on the working day before handing down.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA5CC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A copy of a draft order must bear the case reference, the date of handing down and the name of the judge or Presiding Judge.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDALDC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where a party wishes to apply for an order consequential on the judgment the application must be made by filing written submissions with the clerk to the judge or Presiding Judge by 12 noon on the working day before handing down.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAXDC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless the court orders otherwise –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA5DC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idIDACEC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">where judgment is to be given by an appeal court (which has the same meaning as in rule 52.1(3)(b)), the application will be determined without a hearing; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDALEC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where judgment is to be given by any other court, the application will be determined at a hearing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA1EC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idIDA2EC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Attendance at handing down</h2><a id="idIDA5EC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If there is not to be an oral hearing of an application for an order consequential on judgment –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAHFC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idIDAKFC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the parties’ advocates need not attend on the handing down of judgment; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDATFC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the judgment may be handed down by a judge sitting alone.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDABGC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where paragraph 5.1(a) applies but an advocate does attend the handing down of judgment, the court may if it considers such attendance unnecessary, disallow the costs of the attendance.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>