<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 74B – EUROPEAN ENFORCEMENT ORDERS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 74B – EUROPEAN ENFORCEMENT ORDERS</h1>
<div>
<a id="idid6219533" class="anchor"></a>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText"><a id="idBack-to-top"></a>This Practice Direction supplements Section V of Part 74</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
<table class="contentsTable">
<caption>
Contents of this Practice Direction
</caption>
<colgroup span="1">
<col span="1"/>
<col span="1"/>
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Title</th>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Number</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAECC2">Council Regulation</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAXDC2">Rule 74.28 – Certification of Judgments of the Courts of England and Wales</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;2.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAQFC2">Rule 74.29 – Applications for a certificate of lack of enforceability</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;3.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAEGC2">Rule 74.30 – Application for rectification or withdrawal</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;4.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAWGC2">Rule 74.31 – Enforcement of European Enforcement Orders in England and Wales</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;5.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDATAUJC">Rule 74.32 – An application for refusal of enforcement</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;6.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAFCUJC">Rule 74.33 – Stay or limitation of enforcement</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">Para.&nbsp;7.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAJFUJC">Annex</a></td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div><a id="idIDAECC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Council Regulation</h2><a id="idIDAHCC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDAICC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Certification and enforcement of European Enforcement Orders is governed by Council Regulation (EC) No 805/2004 creating a European Enforcement Order for uncontested claims.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAUCC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The EEO Regulation is annexed to this practice direction and can be found at <a href="http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2005:300:0006:0018:EN:pdf">http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2005:300:0006:0018:EN:pdf</a> It was originally published in the official languages of the European Community in the <em>Official Journal of the European Communities</em> by the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAGDC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Section V of Part 74 sets out the procedure for enforcement under the EEO Regulation. A claim that does not meet the requirements of the EEO Regulation, or which the judgment creditor does not wish to enforce using the EEO Regulation, may be enforceable using another method of enforcement.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAUDC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid6219519" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDAXDC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 74.28 – Certification of Judgments of the Courts of England and Wales</h2><a id="idIDA0DC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6219687" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application under rule 74.28 for a certificate of a High Court or county court judgment for enforcement in another Regulation State must be made using Form N219 or Form N219A –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAEEC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">in the case of a judgment given in the Chancery or Queen&#39;s Bench Division of the High Court, or in a district registry, to a Master, Registrar or district judge; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAREC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">in the case of a county court judgment, to a district judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA3EC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6219666" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the application is granted, the court will send the EEO certificate and a sealed copy of the judgment to the person making the application. Where the court refuses the application, the court will give reasons for the refusal and may give further directions.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDANFC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid6219516" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDAQFC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 74.29 – Applications for a certificate of lack of enforceability</h2><a id="idIDATFC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application must be supported by written evidence in support of the grounds on which the judgment has ceased to be enforceable or its enforceability has been suspended or limited.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDABGC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid6219682" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDAEGC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 74.30 – Application for rectification or withdrawal</h2><a id="idIDAHGC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application must be supported by written evidence in support of the grounds on which it is contended that the EEO should be rectified or withdrawn.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAVGC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idIDAWGC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 74.31 – Enforcement of European Enforcement Orders in England and Wales</h2><a id="idIDAZGC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6219513" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When an EEO is lodged at the court in which enforcement proceedings are to be brought, it will be assigned a case number.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAHHC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6219525" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A copy of a document will satisfy the conditions necessary to establish its authenticity if it is an official copy of the court of origin.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAZHC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6219658" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If judgment is set aside in the court of origin, the judgment creditor must notify all courts in which enforcement proceedings are pending in England and Wales under the EEO as soon as reasonably practicable after the order is served on the judgment creditor. Notification may be by any means available including fax, e-mail, post or telephone.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAQAUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid6219539" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDATAUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 74.32 – An application for refusal of enforcement</h2><a id="idIDAZAUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6219528" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application must be accompanied by an official copy of the earlier judgment, any other documents relied upon and any translations required by the EEO Regulation and supported by written evidence showing –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAHBUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">why the earlier judgment is irreconcilable with the judgment which the judgment creditor is seeking to enforce; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAUBUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">why the irreconcilability was not, and could not have been, raised as an objection in the proceedings in the court of origin.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDACCUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid6219536" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDAFCUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Rule 74.33 – Stay or limitation of enforcement</h2><a id="idIDAICUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6219675" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless the court orders otherwise, an application must be accompanied by evidence of the application in the court of origin, including –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAWCUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">the application (or equivalent foreign process) or a copy of the application (or equivalent foreign process) certified by an appropriate officer of the court of origin; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA5CUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">where that document is not in English, a translation of it into English –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAGDUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">certified by a notary public or person qualified to certify a translation in the Member State of the court of origin under Article 20(2)(c) of the EEO Regulation; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAPDUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">accompanied by written evidence confirming that the translation is accurate.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA3DUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The written evidence in support of the application must state –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAFEUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">that an application has been brought in the member state of origin;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAOEUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the nature of that application; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAZEUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">the date on which the application was filed, the state of the proceedings and the date by which it is believed that the application will be determined.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAJFUJC" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="annex">
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Annex</span></h2>
<p class="grouplinks"><a id="idid6485154" title="pd74b pdf" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd74b_pdf_eps/pd74b_annex.pdf" target="_blank" class="pdfLink">European Enforcement Order Regulation (PDF - opens in new window)</a></p>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>