<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 44 - GENERAL RULES ABOUT COSTS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 44 - GENERAL RULES ABOUT COSTS</h1>
<h1><span class="preTitleText"><a id="idBack-to-top"></a>This Practice Direction supplements Part 44</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
<table class="contentsTable">
<caption>
Contents of this Practice Direction
</caption>
<colgroup>
<col/>
<col/>
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="colgroup">Title</th>
<th scope="colgroup">Number</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idsectionI">SECTION I – GENERAL</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule1.1">Documents and forms</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule2.1">Special provisions relating to VAT</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.1">Scope of this subsection</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.2">VAT Registration Number</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.3">Entitlement to VAT on Costs</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.7">Form of bill of costs where VAT rate changes</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.9">Apportionment</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.9</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.10">Change in VAT rate between the conclusion of a detailed settlement and the issue of a final certificate</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.11">Disbursements not classified as such for VAT purposes</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.11</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.12">Litigants in person</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.13">Government Departments</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.13</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara2.14">Payment pursuant to an order under section 194(3) of the 2007 Act</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;2.14</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule3.1">Costs budgets</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule4.1">Court&#39;s discretion as to costs: rule 44.2</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule5.1">Fees of Counsel</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule6.1">Basis of assessment: rule 44.3</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara6.1">Costs on the indemnity basis</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;6.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara6.2">Costs on the standard basis</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;6.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule7.1">Amount of costs where costs are payable pursuant to a contract: rule 44.5</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara7.1">Application of rule 44.5</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;7.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara7.2">Costs relating to a mortgage</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;7.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule8.1">Procedure for assessing costs: rule 44.6</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule9.1">Summary assessment: general provisions</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.1">When the court should consider whether to make a summary assessment</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.2">Timing of summary assessment</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.3">Summary assessment of mortgagee&#39;s costs</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.4">Consent orders</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.5">Duty of parties and legal representatives</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.7">No summary assessment by a costs officer</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.8">Assisted persons etc</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.8</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.9">Children or protected parties</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.9</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idpara9.10">Disproportionate or unreasonable costs</a></td>
<td>Para.&nbsp;9.10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule10.1">Legal representative&#39;s duty to notify party: rule 44.8</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule11.1">Court&#39;s powers in relation to misconduct: rule 44.11</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idsectionII">SECTION II – QUALIFIED ONE-WAY COSTS SHIFTING</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle"><a href="#idrule12.1">Qualified one-way costs shifting</a></td>
<td>&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAQJJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdblock">
<h2 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idsectionI"></a>SECTION I – GENERAL</h2><a class="anchor" id="idIDATJJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idrule1.1"></a>Documents and forms</h3><a class="anchor" id="idIDAWJJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a class="anchor" id="idIDAXJJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">In respect of any document which is required by Practice Directions 44 to 47 to be signed by a party or that party&#39;s legal representative, the provisions of Practice Direction 22 relating to who may sign apply as if the document in question was a statement of truth. Statements of truth are not required in assessment proceedings unless a rule or Practice Direction so requires or the court so orders.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Practice Direction 22 makes provision for cases in which a party is a child, a protected party or a company or other corporation and cases in which a document is signed on behalf of a partnership.)</span></p>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDAGKJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Form N260 is a model form of Statement of Costs to be used for summary assessments.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Further details about Statements of Costs are given in paragraph 9.5 below.)</span></p>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDAVKJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<p><span class="text">Precedents A, B and C in the Schedule of Costs Precedents annexed to this Practice Direction are model forms of bills of costs to be used for detailed assessments. A party wishing to rely upon a bill which departs from the model forms should include in the background information of the bill an explanation for that departure.</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Further details about bills of costs are given in Practice Direction 47.)</span></p>
</div>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAELJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idrule2.1"></a>Special provisions relating to VAT</h3><a class="anchor" id="idIDAHLJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h4 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idpara2.1"></a>Scope of this subsection</h4><a class="anchor" id="idIDAKLJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">This subsection deals with claims for VAT) which are made in respect of costs being dealt with by way of summary assessment or detailed assessment.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDAXLJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h4 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idpara2.2"></a>VAT Registration Number</h4><a class="anchor" id="idIDA0LJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">The number allocated by HMRC to every person registered under the Value Added Tax Act 1994 (except a Government Department) must appear in a prominent place at the head of every statement, bill of costs, fee sheet, account or voucher on which VAT is being included as part of a claim for costs.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDAHMJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h4 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idpara2.3"></a>Entitlement to VAT on Costs</h4><a class="anchor" id="idIDAKMJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">VAT should not be included in a claim for costs if the receiving party is able to recover the VAT as input tax. Where the receiving party is able to obtain credit from HMRC for a proportion of the VAT as input tax, only that proportion which is not eligible for credit should be included in the claim for costs.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAWMJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.4</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">The receiving party has responsibility for ensuring that VAT is claimed only when the receiving party is unable to recover the VAT or a proportion thereof as input tax.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDACNJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.5</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">Where there is a dispute as to whether VAT is properly claimed the receiving party must provide a certificate signed by the legal representatives or the auditors of the receiving party substantially in the form illustrated in Precedent F in the Schedule of Costs Precedents annexed to Practice Direction 47. Where the receiving party is a litigant in person who is claiming VAT, evidence to support the claim (such as a letter from HMRC) must be produced at the hearing at which the costs are assessed.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAONJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.6</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">Where there is a dispute as to whether any service in respect of which a charge is proposed to be made in the bill is zero rated or exempt from VAT, reference should be made to HMRC and its view obtained and made known at the hearing at which the costs are assessed. Such enquiry should be made by the receiving party. In the case of a bill from a solicitor to the solicitor&#39;s legal representative&#39;s own client, such enquiry should be made by the client.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDA1NJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h4 class="sectionHeading">Form of bill of costs where VAT rate changes</h4><a class="anchor" id="idIDA4NJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.7</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">Where there is a change in the rate of VAT, suppliers of goods and services are entitled by sections 88 (1) and 88(2) of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 in most circumstances to elect whether the new or the old rate of VAT should apply to a supply where the basic and actual tax points span a period during which the rate changed.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAKOJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.8</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">It will be assumed, unless a contrary indication is given in writing, that an election to take advantage of the provisions mentioned in paragraph 2.7 and to charge VAT at the lower rate has been made. In any case in which an election to charge at the lower rate is not made, such a decision must be justified to the court assessing the costs.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDAXOJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<h4 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idpara2.9"></a>Apportionment</h4><a class="anchor" id="idIDA0OJ2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h5><span class="sectionItemNo">2.9</span></h5>
<p><span class="text">Subject to 2.7 and 2.8, all bills of costs, fees and disbursements on which VAT is included must be divided into separate parts so as to show work done before, on and after the date or dates from which any change in the rate of VAT takes effect. Where, however, a lump sum charge is made for work which spans a period during which there has been a change in VAT rates, and paragraphs 2.7 and 2.8 above do not apply, reference should be made to paragraphs 30.7 or 30.8 of the VAT Guide (Notice 700) (or any revised edition of that notice) published by HMRC. If necessary, the lump sum should be apportioned. The totals of profit costs and disbursements in each part must be carried separately to the summary.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDA1JL2B"></a>
<div class="pdblock">
<h2 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idsectionII"></a>SECTION II – QUALIFIED ONE-WAY COSTS SHIFTING</h2><a class="anchor" id="idIDA4JL2B"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<h3 class="sectionHeading"><a id="idrule12.1"></a>Qualified one-way costs shifting</h3><a class="anchor" id="idIDABKL2B"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a class="anchor" id="idIDACKL2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.1</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">This subsection applies to proceedings to which Section II of Part 44 applies.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAOKL2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.2</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Examples of claims made for the financial benefit of a person other than the claimant or a dependant within the meaning of section 1(3) of the Fatal Accidents Act 1976 within the meaning of rule 44.16(2) are subrogated claims and claims for credit hire.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDA0KL2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.3</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">‘Gratuitous provision of care’ within the meaning of rule 44.16(2)(a) includes the provision of personal services rendered gratuitously by persons such as relatives and friends for things such as personal care, domestic assistance, childminding, home maintenance and decorating, gardening and chauffeuring.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAGLL2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.4</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">In a case to which rule 44.16(1) applies (fundamentally dishonest claims) –</span></p>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDAOLL2B"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a class="anchor" id="idIDARLL2B"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the court will normally direct that issues arising out of an allegation that the claim is fundamentally dishonest be determined at the trial;</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDA0LL2B"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where the proceedings have been settled, the court will not, save in exceptional circumstances, order that issues arising out of an allegation that the claim was fundamentally dishonest be determined in those proceedings;</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDADML2B"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">where the claimant has served a notice of discontinuance, the court may direct that issues arising out of an allegation that the claim was fundamentally dishonest be determined notwithstanding that the notice has not been set aside pursuant to rule 38.4;</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAMML2B"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">the court may, as it thinks fair and just, determine the costs attributable to the claim having been found to be fundamentally dishonest.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDA0ML2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.5</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">The court has power to make an order for costs against a person other than the claimant under section 51(3) of the Senior Courts Act 1981 and rule 46.2. In a case to which rule 44.16(2)(a) applies (claims for the benefit of others) –</span></p>
<a class="anchor" id="idIDACNL2B"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a class="anchor" id="idIDAFNL2B"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the court will usually order any person other than the claimant for whose financial benefit such a claim was made to pay all the costs of the proceedings or the costs attributable to the issues to which rule 44.16(2)(a) applies, or may exceptionally make such an order permitting the enforcement of such an order for costs against the claimant.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAONL2B"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the court may, as it thinks fair and just, determine the costs attributable to claims for the financial benefit of persons other than the claimant.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDA2NL2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.6</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">In proceedings to which rule 44.16 applies, the court will normally order the claimant or, as the case may be, the person for whose benefit a claim was made to pay costs notwithstanding that the aggregate amount in money terms of such orders exceeds the aggregate amount in money terms of any orders for damages, interest and costs made in favour of the claimant.</span></p>
</div><a class="anchor" id="idIDAIOL2B"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">12.7</span></h4>
<p><span class="text">Assessments of costs may be on a standard or indemnity basis and may be subject to a summary or detailed assessment.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>