<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 71 - ORDERS TO OBTAIN INFORMATION FROM JUDGMENT DEBTORS</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 71 - ORDERS TO OBTAIN INFORMATION FROM JUDGMENT DEBTORS</h1>
<div>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Part</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">71.1</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">This Part contains rules which provide for a judgment debtor to be required to attend court to provide information, for the purpose of enabling a judgment creditor to enforce a judgment or order against him.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Order to attend court</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">71.2</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A judgment creditor may apply for an order requiring –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a judgment debtor; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">if a judgment debtor is a company or other corporation, an officer of that body,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">to attend court to provide information about –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the judgment debtor&#39;s means; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">any other matter about which information is needed to enforce a judgment or order.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">An application under paragraph (1) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may be made without notice; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">must be issued in the court which made the judgment or order which it is sought to enforce, except that –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">if the proceedings have since been transferred to a different court, it must be issued in that court; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">subject to subparagraph (b)(i), if it is to enforce a judgment made in Northampton County Court in respect of a designated money claim, it must be issued in accordance with section 2 of Practice Direction 70.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The application notice must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">be in the form; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">contain the information</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">required by Practice Direction 71.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">An application under paragraph (1) may be dealt with by a court officer without a hearing.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">If the application notice complies with paragraph (3), an order to attend court will be issued in the terms of paragraph (6).</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">A person served with an order issued under this rule must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">attend court at the time and place specified in the order;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">when he does so, produce at court documents in his control which are described in the order; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">answer on oath such questions as the court may require.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(7)</span> <span class="text">An order under this rule will contain a notice in the following terms, or in terms to substantially the same effect –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">“If you the within-named [ &nbsp;&nbsp; ] do not comply with this order you may be held to be in contempt of court and imprisoned or fined, or your assets may be seized.”</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Service of order</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">71.3</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An order to attend court must, unless the court otherwise orders, be served personally on the person ordered to attend court not less than 14 days before the hearing.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">If the order is to be served by the judgment creditor, he must inform the court not less than 7 days before the date of the hearing if he has been unable to serve it.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Travelling expenses</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">71.4</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">A person ordered to attend court may, within 7 days of being served with the order, ask the judgment creditor to pay him a sum reasonably sufficient to cover his travelling expenses to and from court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The judgment creditor must pay such a sum if requested.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Judgment creditor&#39;s affidavit</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">71.5</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The judgment creditor must file an affidavit<sup><a href="/guidance/courts-and-tribunals/courts/procedure-rules/civil/menus/glossary.htm" rel="glossary">(GL)</a></sup> or affidavits –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">by the person who served the order (unless it was served by the court) giving details of how and when it was served;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">stating either that –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the person ordered to attend court has not requested payment of his travelling expenses; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">the judgment creditor has paid a sum in accordance with such a request; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">stating how much of the judgment debt remains unpaid.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The judgment creditor must either –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">file the affidavit<sup><a href="/guidance/courts-and-tribunals/courts/procedure-rules/civil/menus/glossary.htm" rel="glossary">(GL)</a></sup> or affidavits not less than 2 days before the hearing; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">produce it or them at the hearing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Conduct of the hearing</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">71.6</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The person ordered to attend court will be questioned on oath.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The questioning will be carried out by a court officer unless the court has ordered that the hearing shall be before a judge.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The judgment creditor or his representative –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may attend and ask questions where the questioning takes place before a court officer; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">must attend and conduct the questioning if the hearing is before a judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Adjournment of the hearing</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">71.7</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">If the hearing is adjourned, the court will give directions as to the manner in which notice of the new hearing is to be served on the judgment debtor.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Failure to comply with order</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">71.8</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">If a person against whom an order has been made under rule 71.2 –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">fails to attend court;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">refuses at the hearing to take the oath or to answer any question; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">otherwise fails to comply with the order,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">the court will refer the matter to a High Court judge or circuit judge.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">That judge may, subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), make a committal order against the person.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">A committal order for failing to attend court may not be made unless the judgment creditor has complied with rules 71.4 and 71.5.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">If a committal order is made, the judge will direct that –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the order shall be suspended provided that the person –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">attends court at a time and place specified in the order; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">complies with all the terms of that order and the original order; and</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">if the person fails to comply with any term on which the committal order is suspended, he shall be brought before a judge to consider whether the committal order should be discharged.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<p><span class="text">(Part 81 contains provisions in relation to committal.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>