<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 58 – COMMERCIAL COURT</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 58 – COMMERCIAL COURT</h1>
<div>
<a id="idid4524487" class="anchor"></a><a id="idid4524489" class="anchor"></a>
<h1 class="headingblock"><span class="preTitleText"><a id="idBack-to-top"></a>This practice direction supplements Part 58</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
<table class="contentsTable">
<caption>
Contents of this Practice Direction
</caption>
<colgroup span="1">
<col span="1"/>
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th scope="colgroup" rowspan="1" colspan="1">Title</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDADKC2">General</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDATMC2">Starting proceedings in the Commercial Court</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDATOC2">Applications before proceedings are issued</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDACAG2">Transferring proceedings to or from the Commercial Court</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAFDG2">Acknowledgment of service</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDANEG2">Default judgment and admissions</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDA3FG2">Variation of time limits</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDA3GG2">Amendments</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAVHG2">Service of documents</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAMIG2">Case management</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAORG2">Pre-trial review</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDASTG2">Case management where there is a Part 20 claim</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAKUG2">Evidence for applications</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDAUXG2">Judgments and orders</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="mainGroupTitle" rowspan="1" colspan="1"><a href="#IDA5IH2">APPENDIX A</a></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div><a id="idIDADKC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795964" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">General</h2><a id="idIDAIKC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4524490" class="anchor"></a><a id="idIDALKC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This practice direction applies to commercial claims proceeding in the commercial list of the Queen&#39;s Bench Division. It supersedes all previous practice directions and practice statements in the Commercial Court.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAXKC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">All proceedings in the commercial list, including any appeal from a judgment, order or decision of a master or district judge before the proceedings were transferred to the Commercial Court, will be heard or determined by a Commercial Court judge, except that –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA5KC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">another judge of the Queen&#39;s Bench Division or Chancery Division may hear urgent applications if no Commercial Court judge is available; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAJLC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">unless the court otherwise orders, any application relating to the enforcement of a Commercial Court judgment or order for the payment of money will be dealt with by a master of the Queen&#39;s Bench Division or a district judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAXLC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Provisions in other practice directions which refer to a master or district judge are to be read, in relation to claims in the commercial list, as if they referred to a Commercial Court judge.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDADMC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<a id="idid6170632" class="anchor"></a>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The Admiralty and Commercial Registry in the Royal Courts of Justice is the administrative office of the court for all proceedings in the commercial list.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDATMC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795982" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Starting proceedings in the Commercial Court</h2><a id="idIDAYMC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDAZMC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Claims in the Commercial Court must be issued in the Admiralty and Commercial Registry.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAFNC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When the Registry is closed, a request to issue a claim form may be made by fax, using the procedure set out in Appendix A to this practice direction. If a request is made which complies with that procedure, the claim form is issued when the fax is received by the Registry.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDARNC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The claim form must be marked in the top right hand corner ‘Queen&#39;s Bench Division, Commercial Court’.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA3NC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A claimant starting proceedings in the commercial list, other than an arbitration claim, must use practice form <a id="idid6210259" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">N1(CC)</a> for Part 7 claims or practice form <a id="idid6210260" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">N208(CC)</a> for Part 8 claims.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDATOC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4794647" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Applications before proceedings are issued</h2><a id="idIDAYOC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDAZOC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A party who intends to bring a claim in the commercial list must make any application before the claim form is issued to a Commercial Court judge.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAFPC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The written evidence in support of such an application must state that the claimant intends to bring proceedings in the commercial list.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDARPC2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the Commercial Court judge hearing the application considers that the proceedings should not be brought in the commercial list, he may adjourn the application to be heard by a master or by a judge who is not a Commercial Court judge.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDACAG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795988" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Transferring proceedings to or from the Commercial Court</h2><a id="idIDAHAG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDAIAG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If an application is made to a court other than the Commercial Court to transfer proceedings to the commercial list, the other court may –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAQAG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">adjourn the application to be heard by a Commercial Court judge; or</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA0AG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">dismiss the application.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAIBG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the Commercial Court orders proceedings to be transferred to the commercial list –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAQBG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">it will order them to be transferred to the Royal Courts of Justice; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA0BG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">it may give case management directions.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAICG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application by a defendant, including a Part 20 defendant, for an order transferring proceedings from the commercial list should be made promptly and normally not later than the first case management conference.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAWCG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A party applying to the Commercial Court to transfer a claim to the commercial list must give notice of the application to the court in which the claim is proceeding, and the Commercial Court will not make an order for transfer until it is satisfied that such notice has been given.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAFDG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4778921" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Acknowledgment of service</h2><a id="idIDAKDG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDALDG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">For Part 7 claims, a defendant must file an acknowledgment of service using practice <a id="idid4524493">form N9 (CC)</a>.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA1DG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">For Part 8 claims, a defendant must file an acknowledgment of service using practice <a id="idid4524494">form N210 (CC)</a>.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDANEG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4794641" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Default judgment and admissions</h2><a id="idIDASEG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDATEG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The practice directions supplementing Parts 12 and 14 apply with the following modifications –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA2EG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">paragraph 4.1(1) of Practice Direction 12 is to be read as referring to the service of the claim form; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAKFG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">the references to ‘particulars of claim’ in paragraphs 2.1, 3.1 and 3.2 of Practice Direction 14 are to be read as referring to the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA3FG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795985" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Variation of time limits</h2><a id="idIDACGG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDADGG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the parties, in accordance with rule 2.11, agree in writing to vary a time limit, the claimant must notify the court in writing, giving brief written reasons for the agreed variation.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAPGG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court may make an order overriding an agreement by the parties varying a time limit.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA3GG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4794644" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Amendments</h2><a id="idIDACHG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDADHG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Paragraph 2.2 of Practice Direction 17 is modified so that amendments to a statement of case must show the original text, unless the court orders otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAVHG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795979" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Service of documents</h2><a id="idIDA0HG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDA1HG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">9.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless the court orders otherwise, the Commercial Court will not serve documents or orders and service must be effected by the parties.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAMIG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795858" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Case management</h2><a id="idIDARIG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDASIG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The following parts only of Practice Direction 29 apply –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA4IG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">paragraph 5 (case management conferences), excluding paragraph 5.9 and modified so far as is made necessary by other specific provisions of this practice direction; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAIJG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">paragraph 7 (failure to comply with case management directions).</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAWJG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the proceedings are started in the commercial list, the claimant must apply for a case management conference –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA4JG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<a id="idIDABKG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">for a Part 7 claim, within 14 days of the date when all defendants who intend to file and serve a defence have done so; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDALKG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">for a Part 8 claim, within 14 days of the date when all defendants who intend to serve evidence have done so.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA1KG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the proceedings are transferred to the commercial list, the claimant must apply for a case management conference within 14 days of the date of the order transferring them, unless the judge held, or gave directions for, a case management conference when he made the order transferring the proceedings.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAHLG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Any party may, at a time earlier than that provided in paragraphs 10.2 or 10.3, apply in writing to the court to fix a case management conference.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDATLG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the claimant does not make an application in accordance with paragraphs 10.2 or 10.3, any other party may apply for a case management conference.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA5LG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.6</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court may fix a case management conference at any time on its own initiative. If it does so, the court will give at least 7 days notice to the parties, unless there are compelling reasons for a shorter period of notice.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDALMG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.7</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Not less than 7 days before a case management conference, each party must file and serve –</span></p>
<a id="idIDATMG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">a completed case management information sheet; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA3MG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">an application notice for any order which that party intends to seek at the case management conference, other than directions referred to in the case management information sheet.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDALNG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.8</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Unless the court orders otherwise, the claimant, in consultation with the other parties, must prepare –</span></p>
<a id="idIDATNG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">a case memorandum, containing a short and uncontroversial summary of what the case is about and of its material case history;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA3NG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">a list of issues, with a section listing important matters which are not in dispute; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAHOG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">a case management bundle containing –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAOOG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim form;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAYOG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">all statements of case (excluding schedules), except that, if a summary of a statement of case has been filed, the bundle should contain the summary, and not the full statement of case;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDACPG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the case memorandum;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAMPG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">the list of issues;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAWPG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">the case management information sheets and, if a pre-trial timetable has been agreed or ordered, that timetable;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDADQG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(f)</span> <span class="text">the principal orders of the court; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDANQG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(g)</span> <span class="text">any agreement in writing made by the parties as to disclosure,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">and provide copies of the case management bundle for the court and the other parties at least 7 days before the first case management conference or any earlier hearing at which the court may give case management directions.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAARG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">10.9</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The claimant, in consultation with the other parties, must revise and update the documents referred to in paragraph 10.8 appropriately as the case proceeds. This must include making all necessary revisions and additions at least 7 days before any subsequent hearing at which the court may give case management directions.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAORG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795974" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Pre-trial review</h2><a id="idIDATRG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDAURG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">At any pre-trial review or case management hearing, the court will ensure that case management directions have been complied with and give any further directions for the trial that are necessary.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAASG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Advocates who are to represent the parties at the trial should represent them at the pre-trial review and any case management hearing at which arrangements for the trial are to be discussed.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAMSG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Before the pre-trial review, the parties must discuss and, if possible, agree a draft written timetable for the trial.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAYSG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The claimant must file a copy of the draft timetable for the trial at least two days before the hearing of the pre-trial review. Any parts of the timetable which are not agreed must be identified and short explanations of the disagreement must be given.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAETG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">11.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">At the pre-trial review, the court will set a timetable for the trial, unless a timetable has already been fixed or the court considers that it would be inappropriate to do so or appropriate to do so at a later time.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDASTG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795861" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Case management where there is a Part 20 claim</h2><a id="idIDAXTG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDAYTG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">12.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Paragraph 5 of Practice Direction 20 applies, except that, unless the court otherwise orders, the court will give case management directions for Part 20 claims at the same case management conferences as it gives directions for the main claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAKUG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4794650" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Evidence for applications</h2><a id="idIDAPUG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDAQUG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">13.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The general requirement is that, unless the court orders otherwise –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAYUG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">evidence in support of an application must be filed and served with the application (see rule 23.7(3));</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDACVG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">evidence in answer must be filed and served within 14 days after the application is served; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAMVG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">evidence in reply must be filed and served within 7 days of the service of evidence in answer.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA0VG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">13.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In any case in which the application is likely to require an oral hearing of more than half a day the periods set out in paragraphs 13.1(2) and (3) will be 28 days and 14 days respectively.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAGWG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">13.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the date fixed for the hearing of an application means that the times in paragraphs 13.1(2) and (3) cannot both be achieved, the evidence must be filed and served –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAOWG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">as soon as possible; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAYWG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">in sufficient time to ensure that the application may fairly proceed on the date fixed.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAGXG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">13.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The parties may, in accordance with rule 2.11, agree different periods from those in paragraphs 13.1(2) and (3) provided that the agreement does not affect the date fixed for the hearing of the application.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAUXG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdmaingroup">
<a id="idid4795967" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Judgments and orders</h2><a id="idIDAZXG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idIDA0XG2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">14.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">An application for a consent order must include a draft of the proposed order signed on behalf of all parties to whom it relates (see paragraph 10.4 of Practice Direction 23A).</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDANIH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">14.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Judgments and orders are generally drawn up by the parties (see rule 58.15). The parties are not therefore required to supply draft orders on disk (see paragraph 12.1 of Practice Direction 23A).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA5IH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="appendix">
<a id="idid4795896" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">APPENDIX A</span> :&nbsp;<span class="title">Procedure for issue of claim form when Registry is closed – paragraph 2.2</span></h2><a id="idIDAKJH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">A request to issue a claim form may be made by fax when the Registry is closed, provided that –</span></p>
<a id="idIDASJH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim form is signed by a solicitor acting on behalf of the claimant; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA2JH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">it does not require the permission of the court for its issue (unless such permission has already been given).</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAKKH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The solicitor requesting the issue of the claim form (‘the issuing solicitor’) must –</span></p>
<a id="idIDASKH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">endorse on the claim form and sign the endorsement set out below;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA2KH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">send a copy of the claim form so endorsed to the Registry by fax for issue under paragraph 2.2 of this practice direction; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAGLH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">complete and sign a certificate in the form set out below, certifying that he has received a transmission report confirming that the fax has been transmitted in full, and stating the time and date of transmission.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAULH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When the Registry is next open to the public after the issue of a claim form in accordance with this procedure, the issuing solicitor or his agent must attend and deliver to the Registry –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA2LH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the original of the claim form which was sent by fax (including the endorsement and the certificate) or, if the claim form has been served, a true and certified copy of it;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAGMH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">as many copies of the claim form as the Registry requires; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAQMH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the transmission report.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDA4MH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When a court officer at the Registry has checked that –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAGNH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim form delivered under paragraph 3 matches the claim form received by fax; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAQNH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the correct issue fee has been paid,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">he will allocate a number to the case, and seal, mark as ‘original’ and date the claim form with the date of issue (being the date when the fax is recorded at the Registry as having been received).</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAAOH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the issuing solicitor has served the unsealed claim form on any person, that solicitor must as soon as practicable –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAMOH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">inform that person of the case number; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAWOH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">if requested, serve that person with a copy of the sealed and dated claim form at any address in the United Kingdom, unless the court orders otherwise.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDAMPH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">6.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Any person served with a claim form issued under this procedure may, without paying a fee, inspect and take copies of the documents lodged at the Registry under paragraphs 2 and 3 above.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAYPH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">7.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The issue of a claim form in accordance with this procedure takes place when the fax is recorded at the Registry as having been received, and the claim form has the same effect for all purposes as a claim form issued under Part 7 or 8. Unless the court otherwise orders, the sealed version of the claim form retained by the Registry is conclusive proof that the claim form was issued at the time and on the date stated.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAHQH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsection">
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">8.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the procedure set out in this Appendix is not complied with, the court may declare that a claim form shall be treated as not having been issued.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDATQH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4795893" class="anchor"></a>
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Endorsement</h3>
<p><span class="text">A claim form issued pursuant to a request by fax must be endorsed as follows:</span></p>
<div class="quote">
<a id="idIDA3QH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This claim form is issued under paragraph 2.2 of Practice Direction 58 and may be served notwithstanding that it does not bear the seal of the Court.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDALRH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">A true copy of this claim form and endorsement has been sent to the Admiralty and Commercial Registry, Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London WC2A 2LL, at the time and date certified below by the solicitor whose name appears below (‘the issuing solicitor’).</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAVRH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">It is the duty of the issuing solicitor or his agent to attend at the Registry when it is next open to the public for the claim form to be sealed.</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA5RH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">Any person served with this unsealed claim form –</span></p>
<a id="idIDAGSH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">will be notified by the issuing solicitor of the case number;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAUSH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">may require the issuing solicitor to serve that person with a copy of the sealed claim form at an address in the United Kingdom, unless the court orders otherwise; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAGTH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">may inspect without charge the documents lodged at the Registry by the issuing solicitor.</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idIDATTH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">I, the issuing solicitor, undertake [to the Court, to the defendants named in this claim form, and to any other person served with this claim form] –</span></p>
<a id="idIDA0TH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">that the statement in paragraph 2 above is correct;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAEUH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">that the time and date given in the certificate with this endorsement are correct;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAOUH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">that this claim form is a claim form which may be issued under paragraph 2.2 and Appendix A of Practice Direction 58;</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDA2UH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">that I will comply in all respects with the requirements of Appendix A of Practice Direction 58; and</span></p>
</div><a id="idIDAKVH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">that I will indemnify any person served with the claim form before it is sealed against any loss suffered as a result of the claim form being or becoming invalid as a result of any failure to comply with Appendix A of Practice Direction 58.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<p><span class="text"><em>(Signed)</em></span></p>
<p><span class="text">Solicitor for the claimant</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">[<strong>Note:</strong> the endorsement may be signed in the name of the firm of solicitors rather than an individual solicitor, or by solicitors&#39; agents in their capacity as agents acting on behalf of their professional clients.]</span></p>
</div>
<a id="idIDAMWH2" class="anchor"></a>
<div class="pdsubgroup">
<a id="idid4795864" class="anchor"></a>
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Certificate</h3>
<p><span class="text">The issuing solicitor must sign a certificate in the following form –</span></p>
<div class="quote">
<p><span class="text">I certify that I have received a transmission report confirming that the transmission of a copy of this claim form to the Registry by fax was fully completed and that the time and date of transmission to the Registry were <em>[enter the time and date shown on the transmission report]</em>.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">Dated</span></p>
<p><span class="text"><em>(Signed)</em></span></p>
<p><span class="text">Solicitor for the claimant</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">[<strong>Note:</strong> the certificate must be signed in the name of the firm of solicitors rather than an individual solicitor, or by solicitors&#39; agents in their capacity as agents acting on behalf of their professional clients.]</span></p>
</div>
</div><a id="idid4822991" class="anchor"></a>
<h2 class="headingblock"><span class="title">Commercial Court</span></h2>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N1(CC)</strong> Claim Form</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N1C(CC)</strong> Notes for defendant</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N9(CC)</strong> Acknowledgement of service</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N208(CC)</strong> Claim form (Part 8)</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N208C(CC)</strong> Notes for defendant (Part 8)</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N210(CC)</strong> Acknowledgement of service (Part 8)</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N211(CC)</strong> Claim form (Part 20)</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N211C(CC)</strong> Notes for Part 20 defendant</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
<h3 class="headingblock"><strong>N213(CC)</strong> Acknowledgement of service (Part 20)</h3>
<p>Available on the <a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/pre-trash-archive/civ-proc-rules-old/_old/forms">forms page.</a></p>
</div>
</body></html>