<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 65 - PROCEEDINGS RELATING TO ANTI-SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR AND HARASSMENT</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 65 - PROCEEDINGS RELATING TO ANTI-SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR AND HARASSMENT</h1>
<div>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="section">
<h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Part</h2>
<h3><span class="sectionItemNo">65.1</span></h3>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">This Part contains rules –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in Section I, about injunctions under the Housing Act 1996<sup><a name="backf1001" href="#f1001" class="anchor" id="backf1001">1</a></sup>;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">in Section II, about applications by local authorities under section 91(3) of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003<sup><a name="backf1002" href="#f1002" class="anchor" id="backf1002">2</a></sup> for a power of arrest to be attached to an injunction;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">in Section III, about claims for demotion orders under the Housing Act 1985<sup><a name="backf1003" href="#f1003" class="anchor" id="backf1003">3</a></sup> and Housing Act 1988<sup><a name="backf1004" href="#f1004" class="anchor" id="backf1004">4</a></sup> and proceedings relating to demoted tenancies;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">in Section IV, about anti-social behaviour orders under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998<sup><a name="backf1005" href="#f1005" class="anchor" id="backf1005">5</a></sup>;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">in Section V, about claims under section 3 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997<sup><a name="backf1006" href="#f1006" class="anchor" id="backf1006">6</a></sup>;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(f)</span> <span class="text">in Section VI, about applications for drinking banning orders and interim drinking banning orders under sections 4 and 9 of the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(g)</span> <span class="text">in Section VII, about parenting orders under sections 26A and 26B of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003<sup><a name="backf1007" href="#f1007" class="anchor" id="backf1007">7</a></sup>; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(h)</span> <span class="text">in Section VIII, about injunctions under the Policing and Crime Act 2009.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sectionGroup">
<h2><span class="titleno">I</span> <span class="title">HOUSING ACT 1996 INJUNCTIONS</span></h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Section and interpretation</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.2</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Section applies to applications for an injunction and other related proceedings under Chapter III of Part V of the Housing Act 1996 (injunctions against anti-social behaviour).</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Section ‘the 1996 Act’means the Housing Act 1996.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications for an injunction</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.3</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application for an injunction under Chapter III of Part V of the 1996 Act shall be subject to the Part 8 procedure as modified by this rule and Practice Direction 65.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The application must be –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">made by a claim form in accordance with Practice Direction 65;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">commenced in the court for the district in which the defendant resides or the conduct complained of occurred; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">supported by a witness statement which must be filed with the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The claim form must state–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the matters required by rule 8.2; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the terms of the injunction applied for.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">An application under this rule may be made without notice and where such an application without notice is made–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the witness statement in support of the application must state the reasons why notice has not been given; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the following rules do not apply –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">8.3;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">8.4;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">8.5(2) to (6);</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iv)</span> <span class="text">8.6(1);</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(v)</span> <span class="text">8.7; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(vi)</span> <span class="text">8.8.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">In every application made on notice, the application notice must be served, together with a copy of the witness statement, by the claimant on the defendant personally.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">An application made on notice may be listed for hearing before the expiry of the time for the defendant to file an acknowledgement of service under rule 8.3, and in such a case –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claimant must serve the application notice and witness statement on the defendant not less than two days before the hearing; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the defendant may take part in the hearing whether or not he has filed an acknowledgment of service.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Injunction containing provisions to which a power of arrest is attached</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.4</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">In this rule ‘relevant provision’ means a provision of an injunction to which a power of arrest is attached.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Sections 153C(3) and 153D(4) of the 1996 Act<sup><a name="backf1008" href="#f1008" class="anchor" id="backf1008">8</a></sup> confer powers to attach a power of arrest to an injunction)</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where an injunction contains one or more relevant provisions –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">each relevant provision must be set out in a separate paragraph of the injunction; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">subject to paragraph (3), the claimant must deliver a copy of the relevant provisions to any police station for the area where the conduct occurred.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where the injunction has been granted without notice, the claimant must not deliver a copy of the relevant provisions to any police station for the area where the conduct occurred before the defendant has been served with the injunction containing the relevant provisions.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">Where an order is made varying or discharging any relevant provision, the claimant must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">immediately inform the police station to which a copy of the relevant provisions was delivered under paragraph (2)(b); and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">deliver a copy of the order to any police station so informed.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application for warrant of arrest under section 155(3) of the 1996 Act<sup><a name="backf1009" href="#f1009" class="anchor" id="backf1009">9</a></sup></h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.5</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application for a warrant of arrest under section 155(3) of the 1996 Act must be made in accordance with Part 23 and may be made without notice.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">An applicant for a warrant of arrest under section 155(3) of the 1996 Act must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">file an affidavit setting out grounds for the application with the application notice; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">give oral evidence as to the grounds for the application at the hearing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Proceedings following arrest</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.6</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This rule applies where a person is arrested pursuant to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a power of arrest attached to a provision of an injunction; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a warrant of arrest.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The judge before whom a person is brought following his arrest may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">deal with the matter; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">adjourn the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where the proceedings are adjourned the judge may remand the arrested person in accordance with section 155(2)(b) or (5) of the 1996 Act.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">Where the proceedings are adjourned and the arrested person is released –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the matter must be dealt with (whether by the same or another judge) within 28 days of the date on which the arrested person appears in court; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the arrested person must be given not less than 2 days&#39; notice of the hearing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">An application notice seeking the committal for contempt of court of the arrested person may be issued even if the arrested person is not dealt with within the period mentioned in paragraph (4)(a).</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">Sections 2 and 8 of Part 81 apply where an application is made in a county court to commit a person for breach of an injunction, as if references in those Sections to the judge included references to a district judge.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(For applications for the discharge of a person committed to prison for contempt of court see rules 81.31 and 81.32.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Recognizance</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.7</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where, in accordance with paragraph 2(2)(b) of Schedule 15 to the 1996 Act, the court fixes the amount of any recognizance with a view to it being taken subsequently, the recognizance may be taken by –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a judge;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a justice of the peace;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">a justices&#39; clerk;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">a police officer of the rank of inspector or above or in charge of a police station; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">where the arrested person is in his custody, the governor or keeper of a prison,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">with the same consequences as if it had been entered into before the court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The person having custody of an applicant for bail must release him if satisfied that the required recognizances have been taken.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sectionGroup">
<h2><span class="titleno">II</span> <span class="title">APPLICATIONS BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES FOR POWER OF ARREST TO BE ATTACHED TO AN INJUNCTION</span></h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Section and interpretation</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.8</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Section applies to applications by local authorities under section 91(3) of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003<sup><a name="backf1010" href="#f1010" class="anchor" id="backf1010">10</a></sup> or under section 27(3) of the Police and Justice Act 2006<sup><a name="backf1017" href="#f1017" class="anchor" id="backf1017">11</a></sup> for a power of arrest to be attached to an injunction.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Section 91 of the 2003 Act and section 27 of the 2006 Act apply to proceedings in which a local authority is a party by virtue of section 222 of the Local Government Act 1972<sup><a name="backf1011" href="#f1011" class="anchor" id="backf1011">12</a></sup> (power of local authority to bring, defend or appear in proceedings for the promotion or protection of the interests of inhabitants in their area)</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Section ‘the 2003 Act’means the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">In this Section ‘the 2006 Act’means the Police and Justice Act 2006.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications under section 91(3) of the 2003 Act or section 27(3) of the 2006 Act for a power of arrest to be attached to any provision of an injunction</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.9</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application under section 91(3) of the 2003 Act or section 27(3) of the 2006 Act for a power of arrest to be attached to any provision of an injunction must be made in the proceedings seeking the injunction by –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim form;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the acknowledgment of service;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">the defence or counterclaim in a Part 7 claim; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">application under Part 23.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Every application must be supported by written evidence.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Every application made on notice must be served personally, together with a copy of the written evidence, by the local authority on the person against whom the injunction is sought not less than 2 days before the hearing.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Attention is drawn to rule 25.3(3) – applications without notice)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Injunction containing provisions to which a power of arrest is attached</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.10</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where a power of arrest is attached to a provision of an injunction on the application of a local authority under section 91(3) of the 2003 Act, the following rules in Section I of this Part shall apply –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">rule 65.4; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">paragraphs (1), (2), (4) and (5) of rule 65.6.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1A)</span> <span class="text">Where a power of arrest is attached to a provision of an injunction on the application of a local authority under section 27(3) of the 2006 Act, the following rules in Section I of this Part apply –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">rule 65.4;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">paragraphs (1), (2), (4) and (5) of rule 65.6;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">paragraph (1) of rule 65.7, as if the reference to paragraph 2(2)(b) of Schedule 15 to the Housing Act 1996<sup><a name="backf1018" href="#f1018" class="anchor" id="backf1018">13</a></sup> was a reference to paragraph 2(2)(b) of Schedule 10 to the 2006 Act; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">paragraph (2) of rule 65.7.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">CCR Order 29, rule 1 shall apply where an application is made in a county court to commit a person for breach of an injunction.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sectionGroup">
<h2><span class="titleno">III</span> <span class="title">DEMOTION CLAIMS, PROCEEDINGS RELATED TO DEMOTED TENANCIES AND APPLICATIONS TO SUSPEND THE RIGHT TO BUY</span></h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Section and interpretation</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.11</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Section applies to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">claims by a landlord for an order under section 82A of the Housing Act 1985<sup><a name="backf1012" href="#f1012" class="anchor" id="backf1012">14</a></sup> or under section 6A of the Housing Act 1988<sup><a name="backf1013" href="#f1013" class="anchor" id="backf1013">15</a></sup> (‘a demotion order’);</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(aa)</span> <span class="text">claims by a landlord for an order under section 121A of the Housing Act 1985 (‘a suspension order’); and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">proceedings relating to a tenancy created by virtue of a demotion order.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Section –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">‘a demotion claim’ means a claim made by a landlord for a demotion order;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">‘a demoted tenancy’ means a tenancy created by virtue of a demotion order;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">‘suspension claim’ means a claim made by a landlord for a suspension order; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">‘suspension period’ means the period during which the suspension order suspends the right to buy in relation to the dwelling house.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Demotion claims or suspension claims made in the alternative to possession claims</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.12</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Where a demotion order or suspension order (or both) is claimed in the alternative to a possession order, the claimant must use the Part 55 procedure and Section I of Part 55 applies, except that the claim must be made in the county court for the district in which the property to which the claim relates is situated.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Other demotion or suspension claims</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.13</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">Where a demotion claim or suspension claim (or both) is made other than in a possession claim, rules 65.14 to 65.19 apply.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Starting a demotion or suspension claim</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.14</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The claim must be made in the county court for the district in which the property to which the claim relates is situated.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The claim form and form of defence sent with it must be in the forms set out in Practice Direction 65.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Part 16 and Practice Direction 65 provide details about the contents of the particulars of claim)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Particulars of claim</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.15</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">The particulars of claim must be filed and served with the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Hearing date</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.16</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The court will fix a date for the hearing when it issues the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The hearing date will be not less than 28 days from the date of issue of the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The standard period between the issue of the claim form and the hearing will be not more than 8 weeks.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The defendant must be served with the claim form and the particulars of claim not less than 21 days before the hearing date.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Rule 3.1(2)(a) provides that the court may extend or shorten the time for compliance with any rule and rule 3.1(2)(b) provides that the court may adjourn or bring forward a hearing)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Defendant&#39;s response</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.17</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An acknowledgement of service is not required and Part 10 does not apply.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where the defendant does not file a defence within the time specified in rule 15.4 he may take part in any hearing but the court may take his failure to do so into account when deciding what order to make about costs.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Part 12 (default judgment) does not apply.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">The hearing</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.18</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">At the hearing fixed in accordance with rule 65.16(1) or at any adjournment of that hearing the court may–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">decide the claim; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">give case management directions.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where the claim is genuinely disputed on grounds which appear to be substantial, case management directions given under paragraph (1)(b) will include the allocation of the claim to a track or directions to enable it to be allocated.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Except where –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim is allocated to the fast track or the multi-track; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the court directs otherwise,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">any fact that needs to be proved by the evidence of witnesses at a hearing referred to in paragraph (1) may be proved by evidence in writing.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Rule 32.2(1) sets out the general rule about evidence. Rule 32.2(2) provides that rule 32.2(1) is subject to any provision to the contrary)</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">All witness statements must be filed and served at least two days before the hearing.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">Where the claimant serves the claim form and particulars of claim, the claimant must produce at the hearing a certificate of service of those documents and rule 6.17(2)(a) does not apply.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Allocation</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.19</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">When the court decides the track for the claim, the matters to which it shall have regard include –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the matters set out in rule 26.8; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the nature and extent of the conduct alleged.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Proceedings relating to demoted tenancies</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.20</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">A practice direction may make provision about proceedings relating to demoted tenancies.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sectionGroup">
<h2><span class="titleno">IV</span> <span class="title">ANTI-SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR ORDERS UNDER THE CRIME AND DISORDER ACT 1998</span></h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Section and interpretation</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.21</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Section applies to applications in proceedings in a county court under sub-sections (2), (3) or (3B) of section 1B of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998<sup><a name="backf1014" href="#f1014" class="anchor" id="backf1014">16</a></sup> by a relevant authority, and to applications for interim orders under section 1D of that Act.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Section –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">‘the 1998 Act’ means the Crime and Disorder Act 1998;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">‘relevant authority’ has the same meaning as in section 1(1A) of the 1998 Act; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">‘the principal proceedings’ means any proceedings in a county court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application where the relevant authority is a party in principal proceedings</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.22</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Subject to paragraph (2) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">where the relevant authority is the claimant in the principal proceedings, an application under section 1B(2) of the 1998 Act for an order under section 1B(4) of the 1998 Act must be made in the claim form; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where the relevant authority is a defendant in the principal proceedings, an application for an order must be made by application notice which must be filed with the defence.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where the relevant authority becomes aware of the circumstances that lead it to apply for an order after its claim is issued or its defence filed, the application must be made by application notice as soon as possible thereafter.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where the application is made by application notice, it should normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application by a relevant authority to join a person to the principal proceedings</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.23</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application under section 1B(3B) of the 1998 Act by a relevant authority which is a party to the principal proceedings to join a person to the principal proceedings must be made–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in accordance with Section I of Part 19;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">in the same application notice as the application for an order under section 1B(4) of the 1998 Act against the person; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">as soon as possible after the relevant authority considers that the criteria in section 1B(3A) of the 1998 Act are met.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The application notice must contain–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the relevant authority&#39;s reasons for claiming that the person&#39;s anti-social acts are material in relation to the principal proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">details of the anti-social acts alleged.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The application should normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application where the relevant authority is not party in principal proceedings</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.24</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where the relevant authority is not a party to the principal proceedings –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">an application under section 1B(3) of the 1998 Act to be made a party must be made in accordance with Section I of Part 19; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the application to be made a party and the application for an order under section 1B(4) of the 1998 Act must be made in the same application notice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The applications –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">must be made as soon as possible after the authority becomes aware of the principal proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">should normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Evidence</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.25</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">An application for an order under section 1B(4) of the 1998 Act must be accompanied by written evidence, which must include evidence that section 1E of the 1998 Act has been complied with.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application for an interim order</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.26</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application for an interim order under section 1D of the 1998 Act must be made in accordance with Part 25.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The application should normally be made –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in the claim form or application notice seeking the order; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sectionGroup">
<h2><span class="titleno">V</span> <span class="title">PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE PROTECTION FROM HARASSMENT ACT 1997</span></h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Section</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.27</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">This Section applies to proceedings under section 3 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997<sup><a name="backf1015" href="#f1015" class="anchor" id="backf1015">17</a></sup> (‘the 1997 Act’).</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Claims under section 3 of the 1997 Act</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.28</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">A claim under section 3 of the 1997 Act –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">shall be subject to the Part 8 procedure; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">must be commenced –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">if in the High Court, in the Queen&#39;s Bench Division;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">if in the county court, in the court for the district in which the defendant resides or carries on business or the court for the district in which the claimant resides or carries on business.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications for issue of a warrant of arrest under section 3(3) of the 1997 Act</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.29</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application for a warrant of arrest under section 3(3) of the 1997 Act –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">must be made in accordance with Part 23; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">may be made without notice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The application notice must be supported by affidavit evidence which must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">set out the grounds for the application;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">state whether the claimant has informed the police of the conduct of the defendant as described in the affidavit; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">state whether, to the claimant&#39;s knowledge, criminal proceedings are being pursued.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Proceedings following arrest</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.30</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">The judge before whom a person is brought following his arrest may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">deal with the matter; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">adjourn the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where the proceedings are adjourned and the arrested person is released –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the matter must be dealt with (whether by the same or another judge) within 28 days of the date on which the arrested person appears in court; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the arrested person must be given not less than 2 days&#39; notice of the hearing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sectionGroup">
<h2><span class="titleno">VI</span> <span class="title">DRINKING BANNING ORDERS UNDER THE VIOLENT CRIME REDUCTION ACT 2006<sup><a name="backf1016" href="#f1016" class="anchor" id="backf1016">18</a></sup></span></h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Section and interpretation</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.31</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Section applies to applications in proceedings in a county court under sub-sections (2), (3) or (5) of section 4 of the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 by a relevant authority, and to applications for interim orders under section 9 of that Act.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Section –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">‘the 2006 Act’ means the Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">‘relevant authority’ has the same meaning as in section 14(1) of the 2006 Act; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">‘the principal proceedings’ means any proceedings in a county court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application where the relevant authority is a party in principal proceedings</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.32</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Subject to paragraph (2) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">where the relevant authority is the claimant in the principal proceedings, an application under section 4(2) of the 2006 Act for an order under section 4(7) of the 2006 Act must be made in the claim form; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where the relevant authority is a defendant in the principal proceedings, an application for an order must be made by application notice which must be filed with the defence.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where the relevant authority becomes aware of the circumstances that lead it to apply for an order after its claim is issued or its defence filed, the application must be made by application notice as soon as possible thereafter.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where the application is made by application notice, it should normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application where the relevant authority is not a party in principal proceedings</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.33</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where the relevant authority is not a party to the principal proceedings –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">an application under section 4(3) of the 2006 Act to be made a party must be made in accordance with Section I of Part 19; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the application to be made a party and the application for an order under section 4(7) of the 2006 Act must be made in the same application notice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The applications –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">must be made as soon as possible after the relevant authority becomes aware of the principal proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">should normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application by a relevant authority to join a person to the principal proceedings</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.34</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application under section 4(5) of the 2006 Act by a relevant authority which is a party to the principal proceedings to join a person to the principal proceedings must be made–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in accordance with Section I of Part 19;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">in the same application notice as the application for an order under section 4(7) of the 2006 Act against the person; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">as soon as possible after the relevant authority considers that the criteria in section 4(4) of the 2006 Act are met.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The application notice must contain–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the relevant authority’s reasons for claiming that the person&#39;s conduct is material in relation to the principal proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">details of the conduct alleged.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The application should normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Evidence</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.35</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">An application for an order under section 4(7) of the 2006 Act must be accompanied by written evidence, which must include evidence that section 4(6) of the 2006 Act has been complied with.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application for an interim order</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.36</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application for an interim order under section 9 of the 2006 Act must be made in accordance with Part 25.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The application should normally be made –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in the claim form or application notice seeking the order; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">An application for an interim order may be –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">made without a copy of the application notice being served on the person against whom the order is sought;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">heard in the absence of the person against whom the order is sought,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="text">with the permission of the court.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sectionGroup">
<h2><span class="titleno">VII</span> <span class="title">PARENTING ORDERS UNDER THE ANTI-SOCIAL BEHAVIOUR ACT 2003</span></h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Section and interpretation</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.37</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Section of this Part applies in relation to applications for parenting orders under sections 26A and 26B of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003 by a relevant authority.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Section –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">‘the 2003 Act’ means the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">‘relevant authority’ has the same meaning as in section 26C of the 2003 Act.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications for parenting orders</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.38</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Subject to paragraph (2) –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">where the relevant authority is the claimant in the proceedings, an application for an order under section 26A or 26B of the 2003 Act must be made in the claim form; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">where the relevant authority is a defendant in the proceedings, an application for such an order must be made by application notice which must be filed with the defence.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where the relevant authority becomes aware of the circumstances that lead it to apply for an order after its claim is issued or its defence filed, the application must be made by application notice as soon as possible thereafter.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where the application is made by application notice, it must normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications by the relevant authority to be joined to proceedings</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.39</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where the relevant authority is not a party to the proceedings –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">an application under section 26C(2) of the 2003 Act to be made a party must be made in accordance with Section I of Part 19; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the application to be made a party and the application for an order under section 26A or 26B of the 2003 Act must be made in the same application notice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The applications –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">must be made as soon as possible after the relevant authority becomes aware of the proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">must normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications by the relevant authority to join a parent to proceedings</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.40</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application under section 26C(3) of the 2003 Act by a relevant authority which is a party to the proceedings to join a parent to those proceedings must be made –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">in the same application notice as the application for an order under section 26A or 26B of the 2003 Act; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">as soon as possible after the relevant authority considers that the grounds for the application are met.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Rule 19.2 does not apply in relation to an application made by a relevant authority under section 26C(3) of the 2003 Act to join a parent to the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The application notice must contain–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the relevant authority’s reasons for claiming the anti-social behaviour of the child or young person is material in relation to the proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">details of the behaviour alleged.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">The application must normally be made on notice to the person against whom the order is sought.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Evidence</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.41</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="text">An application under section 26A, 26B or 26C of the 2003 Act must be accompanied by written evidence.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sectionGroup">
<h2><span class="titleno">VIII</span> <span class="title">INJUNCTIONS UNDER THE POLICING AND CRIME ACT 2009</span></h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Scope of this Section and interpretation</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.42</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This Section applies to applications for an injunction and other related proceedings under Part 4 of the Policing and Crime Act 2009<sup><a name="backf1019" href="#f1019" class="anchor" id="backf1019">19</a></sup> (Injunctions: gang-related violence).</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">In this Section ‘the 2009 Act’means the Policing and Crime Act 2009.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications for an injunction</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.43</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application for an injunction under Part 4 of the 2009 Act is subject to the Part 8 procedure as modified by this rule and Practice Direction 65.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The application must be –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">made by a claim form in accordance with Practice Direction 65;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">commenced in the court for the district in which the defendant resides or the conduct complained of occurred; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">supported by a witness statement which must be filed with the claim form.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">The claim form must state–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the matters required by rule 8.2; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the terms of the injunction applied for.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">An application under this rule may be made without notice and where such an application without notice is made–</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the witness statement in support of the application must state the reasons why notice has not been given; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the following rules do not apply –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">8.3;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">8.4;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">8.5(2) to (6);</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iv)</span> <span class="text">8.6(1);</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(v)</span> <span class="text">8.7; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(vi)</span> <span class="text">8.8.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">In every application made on notice, the application notice must be served, together with a copy of the witness statement, by the claimant on the defendant personally.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(6)</span> <span class="text">An application made on notice may be listed for hearing before the expiry of the time for the defendant to file an acknowledgement of service under rule 8.3, and in such a case –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claimant must serve the application notice and witness statement on the defendant not less than 2 days before the hearing; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the defendant may take part in the hearing whether or not the defendant has filed an acknowledgment of service.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Injunction containing provisions to which a power of arrest is attached</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.44</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">In this rule ‘relevant provision’ means a provision of an injunction to which a power of arrest is attached.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Section 36(6) and (7) and section 40(3) and 41(4) of the 2009 Act confer powers to attach a power of arrest to an injunction.)</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Where an injunction contains one or more relevant provisions –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">each relevant provision must be set out in a separate paragraph of the injunction; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">subject to paragraph (3), the claimant must deliver a copy of the relevant provisions to any police station for the area where the conduct occurred.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where the injunction has been granted without notice, the claimant must not deliver a copy of the relevant provisions to any police station for the area where the conduct occurred before the defendant has been served with the injunction containing the relevant provisions.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">Where an order is made varying or discharging any relevant provision, the claimant must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">immediately inform the police station to which a copy of the relevant provisions was delivered under paragraph (2)(b); and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">deliver a copy of the order to any police station so informed.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application to vary or discharge an injunction</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.45</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application to vary or discharge an injunction under section 42(1)(b) of the 2009 Act must be made in accordance with Part 23.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">An application by the claimant to vary or discharge the injunction under section 42(1)(b) of the 2009 Act may be made without notice.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">If an application under this rule is made without giving notice, the application notice must state the reasons why notice has not been given.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Application for warrant of arrest under section 44(2) of the 2009 Act</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.46</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application for a warrant of arrest under section 44(2) of the 2009 Act must be made in accordance with Part 23 and may be made without notice.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">An applicant for a warrant of arrest under section 44(2) of the 2009 Act must –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">file an affidavit setting out grounds for the application with the application notice; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">give oral evidence of the grounds for the application at the hearing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Where in accordance with sub-paragraph (2)(b), oral evidence is given, the applicant must produce a written record of that evidence which must be served on the person arrested at the time of the arrest.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Proceedings following arrest under the 2009 Act</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.47</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">This rule applies where a person is arrested pursuant to –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a power of arrest attached to a provision of an injunction; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a warrant of arrest.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The judge before whom a person is brought following his arrest may –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">deal with the matter; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">adjourn the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">If proceedings under section 43 or 44 of the 2009 Act are adjourned and the arrested person is released –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the matter must be dealt with (whether by the same or another judge) within 28 days of the date on which the arrested person appears in court; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the arrested person must be given not less than 2 days’ notice of the hearing.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(4)</span> <span class="text">An application notice seeking the committal for contempt of court of the arrested person may be issued even if the arrested person is not dealt with within the period in subparagraph (3)(a).</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(5)</span> <span class="text">Sections 2 and 8 of Part 81 apply where an application is made in a county court to commit a person for breach of an injunction as if references in those Sections to the judge include references to a district judge.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(For applications for the discharge of a person committed to prison for contempt of court see rules 81.31 and 81.32.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Recognizance</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.48</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">Where, in accordance with paragraph 2(2)(b) of Schedule 5 to the 2009 Act, the court fixes the amount of any recognizance with a view to it being taken subsequently, the recognizance may be taken by –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">a judge;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">a justice of the peace;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">a justices’clerk;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(d)</span> <span class="text">a police officer of the rank of inspector or above, or in charge of a police station; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(e)</span> <span class="text">where the arrested person is in custody, the governor or keeper of a prison,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">with the same consequences as if it had been entered into before the court.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">The person having custody of an applicant for bail must release that person if satisfied that the required recognizances have been taken.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section">
<h3 class="sectionHeading">Applications for a power of arrest to be attached to any provision of an injunction</h3>
<h4><span class="sectionItemNo">65.49</span></h4>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">An application under section 34 or 39 of the 2009 Act which includes an application for a power of arrest to be attached to any provision of an injunction must be made in the proceedings seeking the injunction by –</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the claim form; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">an application under Part 23.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">Every application must be supported by written evidence.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">Every application made on notice must be served personally, together with a copy of the written evidence, by the applicant on the person against whom the injunction is sought not less than 2 days before the hearing.</span></p>
<p><span class="text">(Attention is drawn to rule 25.3(3) – applications without notice.)</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="footnotes">
<h2>Footnotes</h2>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">1.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1996 c.52.</span> <a href="#backf1001" class="footnote">Return to footnote 1</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">2.</span> <span class="footnoteText">2003 c.38.</span> <a href="#backf1002" class="footnote">Return to footnote 2</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">3.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1985 c.68.</span> <a href="#backf1003" class="footnote">Return to footnote 3</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">4.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1988 c.50.</span> <a href="#backf1004" class="footnote">Return to footnote 4</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">5.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1998 c.37.</span> <a href="#backf1005" class="footnote">Return to footnote 5</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">6.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1997 c.40.</span> <a href="#backf1006" class="footnote">Return to footnote 6</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">7.</span> <span class="footnoteText">2003 c. 38. Section 24 of the Police and Justice Act 2006 (c. 48) inserts sections 26A, 26B and 26C into the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003.</span> <a href="#backf1007" class="footnote">Return to footnote 7</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">8.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1996 c.52. These sections were inserted by section 13 of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003.</span> <a href="#backf1008" class="footnote">Return to footnote 8</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">9.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1996 c.52. This section was amended by section 13 of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003.</span> <a href="#backf1009" class="footnote">Return to footnote 9</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">10.</span> <span class="footnoteText">2003 c.38.</span> <a href="#backf1010" class="footnote">Return to footnote 10</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">11.</span> <span class="footnoteText">2006 c. 48.</span> <a href="#backf1017" class="footnote">Return to footnote 11</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">12.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1972 c.70.</span> <a href="#backf1011" class="footnote">Return to footnote 12</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">13.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1996 c. 52.</span> <a href="#backf1018" class="footnote">Return to footnote 13</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">14.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1985 c.68. This section was inserted by section 14 of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003.</span> <a href="#backf1012" class="footnote">Return to footnote 14</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">15.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1988 c.50. This section was inserted by section 14 of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003.</span> <a href="#backf1013" class="footnote">Return to footnote 15</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">16.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1998 c.37. Sections 1(1A) and 1B were amended by section 85 of the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003 (c.38).</span> <a href="#backf1014" class="footnote">Return to footnote 16</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">17.</span> <span class="footnoteText">1997 c.40.</span> <a href="#backf1015" class="footnote">Return to footnote 17</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">18.</span> <span class="footnoteText">2006 c. 38.</span> <a href="#backf1016" class="footnote">Return to footnote 18</a>
</div>
<div class="footnote">
<span class="footnoteNo">19.</span> <span class="footnoteText">2009 c. 26.</span> <a href="#backf1019" class="footnote">Return to footnote 19</a>
</div>
</div>
</body></html>