<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION 6B – SERVICE OUT OF THE JURISDICTION</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION 6B – SERVICE OUT OF THE JURISDICTION</h1>
<a id="idBack-to-top"></a>
<h2>This Practice Direction supplements Section IV of CPR Part 6</h2>
<p>Contents of this Practice Direction<br/></p>
<table style="width: 100%;" border="1">
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Title</th>
<th>Number</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id1.1">Scope of this Practice Direction</a></td>
<td>Para. 1.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id2.1">Service out of the jurisdiction where permission of the court is not required</a></td>
<td>Para. 2.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id3.1">Service out of the jurisdiction where permission is required</a></td>
<td>Para. 3.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id4.1">Documents to be filed under rule 6.43(2)(c)</a></td>
<td>Para. 4.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id5.1">Service in a Commonwealth State or British overseas territory</a></td>
<td>Para. 5.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id6.1">Period for responding to a claim form</a></td>
<td>Para. 6.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id7.1">Period for responding to an application notice</a></td>
<td>Para. 7.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#idAnnex">Annex</a></td>
<td><br/></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>&nbsp;<br/>
<h3><a id="id1.1"></a>Scope of this Practice Direction</h3>
<p><strong>1.1</strong>&nbsp; This Practice Direction supplements Section IV (service of the claim form and other documents out of the jurisdiction) of Part 6.</p>
<p>(Practice Direction 6A contains relevant provisions supplementing rule 6.40 in relation to the method of service on a party in Scotland or Northern Ireland.)</p>
<h3><a id="id2.1"></a>Service out of the jurisdiction where permission of the court is not required</h3>
<p><strong>2.1</strong>&nbsp; Where rule 6.34 applies, the claimant must file practice form N510 when filing the claim form.</p>
<h3><a id="id3.1"></a>Service out of the jurisdiction where permission is required</h3>
<p><strong>3.1</strong>&nbsp; The claimant may serve a claim form out of the jurisdiction with the permission of the court under rule 6.36 where –</p>
<h4>General Grounds</h4>
<p>(1) A claim is made for a remedy against a person domiciled within the jurisdiction.</p>
<p>(2) A claim is made for an injunction(GL) ordering the defendant to do or refrain from doing an act within the jurisdiction.</p>
<p>(3) A claim is made against a person (‘the defendant’) on whom the claim form has been or will be served (otherwise than in reliance on this paragraph) and –</p>
<p>(a) there is between the claimant and the defendant a real issue which it is reasonable for the court to try; and</p>
<p>(b) the claimant wishes to serve the claim form on another person who is a necessary or proper party to that claim.</p>
<p>(4) A claim is an additional claim under Part 20 and the person to be served is a necessary or proper party to the claim or additional claim.</p>
<h4>Claims for interim remedies</h4>
<p>(5) A claim is made for an interim remedy under section 25(1) of the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982.<br/>
Claims in relation to contracts</p>
<p>(6) A claim is made in respect of a contract where the contract –</p>
<p>(a) was made within the jurisdiction;</p>
<p>(b) was made by or through an agent trading or residing within the jurisdiction;</p>
<p>(c) is governed by English law; or</p>
<p>(d) contains a term to the effect that the court shall have jurisdiction to determine any claim in respect of the contract.</p>
<p>(7) A claim is made in respect of a breach of contract committed within the jurisdiction.</p>
<p>(8) A claim is made for a declaration that no contract exists where, if the contract was found to exist, it would comply with the conditions set out in paragraph (6).</p>
<h4>Claims in tort</h4>
<p>(9) A claim is made in tort where</p>
<p>(a) damage was sustained within the jurisdiction; or</p>
<p>(b) the damage sustained resulted from an act committed within the jurisdiction.</p>
<h4>Enforcement</h4>
<p>(10) A claim is made to enforce any judgment or arbitral award.</p>
<h4>Claims about property within the jurisdiction</h4>
<p>(11) The whole subject matter of a claim relates to property located within the jurisdiction.</p>
<h4>Claims about trusts etc.</h4>
<p>(12) A claim is made for any remedy which might be obtained in proceedings to execute the trusts of a written instrument where –</p>
<p>(a) the trusts ought to be executed according to English law; and</p>
<p>(b) the person on whom the claim form is to be served is a trustee of the trusts.</p>
<p>(13) A claim is made for any remedy which might be obtained in proceedings for the administration of the estate of a person who died domiciled within the jurisdiction.</p>
<p>(14) A probate claim or a claim for the rectification of a will.</p>
<p>(15) A claim is made for a remedy against the defendant as constructive trustee where the defendant&#39;s alleged liability arises out of acts committed within the jurisdiction.</p>
<p>(16) A claim is made for restitution where the defendant’s alleged liability arises out of acts committed within the jurisdiction.</p>
<h4>Claims by HM Revenue and Customs</h4>
<p>(17) A claim is made by the Commissioners for H.M. Revenue and Customs relating to duties or taxes against a defendant not domiciled in Scotland or Northern Ireland.</p>
<h4>Claim for costs order in favour of or against third parties</h4>
<p>(18) A claim is made by a party to proceedings for an order that the court exercise its power under section 51 of the Senior Courts Act 1981 to make a costs order in favour of or against a person who is not a party to those proceedings.</p>
<p>(Rule 46.2 sets out the procedure where the court is considering whether to exercise its discretion to make a costs order in favour of or against a non-party.)</p>
<h4>Admiralty claims</h4>
<p>(19) A claim is –</p>
<p>(a) in the nature of salvage and any part of the services took place within the jurisdiction; or</p>
<p>(b) to enforce a claim under section 153, 154,175 or 176A of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.</p>
<h4>Claims under various enactments</h4>
<p>(20) A claim is made –</p>
<p>(a) under an enactment which allows proceedings to be brought and those proceedings are not covered by any of the other grounds referred to in this paragraph; or</p>
<p>(b) under the Directive of the Council of the European Communities dated 15 March 1976 No. 76/308/EEC, where service is to be effected in a Member State of the European Union.</p>
<h3><a id="id4.1"></a>Documents to be filed under rule 6.43(2)(c)</h3>
<p><strong>4.1</strong>&nbsp; A party must provide the following documents for each party to be served out of the jurisdiction –</p>
<p>(1) a copy of the particulars of claim if not already contained in or served with the claim form and any other relevant documents;</p>
<p>(2) a duplicate of the claim form, a duplicate of the particulars of claim (if not already contained in or served with the claim form), copies of any documents accompanying the claim form and copies of any other relevant documents;</p>
<p>(3) forms for responding to the claim; and</p>
<p>(4) any translation required under rule 6.45 in duplicate.</p>
<p><strong>4.2</strong>&nbsp; Some countries require legalisation of the document to be served and some require a formal letter of request which must be signed by the Senior Master. Any queries on this should be addressed to the Foreign Process Section (Room E02) at the Royal Courts of Justice.</p>
<h3><a id="id5.1"></a>Service in a Commonwealth State or British overseas territory</h3>
<p><strong>5.1&nbsp;</strong> The judicial authorities of certain Commonwealth States which are not a party to the Hague Convention require service to be in accordance with rule 6.42(1)(b)(i) and not 6.42(3). A list of such countries can be obtained from the Foreign Process Section (Room E02) at the Royal Courts of Justice.</p>
<p><strong>5.2</strong>&nbsp; The list of British overseas territories is contained in Schedule 6 to the British Nationality Act 1981. For ease of reference, these are –</p>
<p>(a) Anguilla;</p>
<p>(b) Bermuda;</p>
<p>(c) British Antarctic Territory;</p>
<p>(d) British Indian Ocean Territory;</p>
<p>(e) British Virgin Islands;</p>
<p>(f) Cayman Islands;</p>
<p>(g) Falkland Islands;</p>
<p>(h) Gibraltar;</p>
<p>(i) Montserrat;</p>
<p>(j) Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno;</p>
<p>(k) St. Helena and Dependencies;</p>
<p>(l) South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands;</p>
<p>(m) Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia; and</p>
<p>(n) Turks and Caicos Islands.</p>
<h3><a id="id6.1"></a>Period for responding to a claim form</h3>
<p><strong>6.1</strong>&nbsp; Where rule 6.35(5) applies, the periods within which the defendant must –</p>
<p>(1) file an acknowledgment of service;</p>
<p>(2) file or serve an admission; or</p>
<p>(3) file a defence,</p>
<p>will be calculated in accordance with paragraph 6.3, 6.4 or 6.5.</p>
<p><strong>6.2</strong>&nbsp; Where the court grants permission to serve a claim form out of the jurisdiction the court will determine in accordance with paragraph 6.3, 6.4 or 6.5 the periods within which the defendant must –</p>
<p>(1) file an acknowledgment of service;</p>
<p>(2) file or serve an admission; or</p>
<p>(3) file a defence.</p>
<p>(Rule 6.37(5)(a) provides that when giving permission to serve a claim form out of the jurisdiction the court will specify the period within which the defendant may respond to the claim form.)</p>
<p><strong>6.3</strong>&nbsp; The period for filing an acknowledgment of service under Part 10 or for filing or serving an admission under Part 14 is the number of days listed in the Table after service of the particulars of claim.</p>
<p><strong>6.4</strong>&nbsp; The period for filing a defence under Part 15 is –</p>
<p>(1) the number of days listed in the Table after service of the particulars of claim; or<br/></p>
<p>(2) where the defendant has filed an acknowledgment of service, the number of days listed in the Table plus an additional 14 days after the service of the particulars of claim.</p>
<p><strong>6.5</strong>&nbsp; Under the State Immunity Act 1978, where a State is served, the period permitted under paragraphs 6.3 and 6.4 for filing an acknowledgment of service or defence or for filing or serving an admission does not begin to run until 2 months after the date on which the State is served.</p>
<p><strong>6.6</strong>&nbsp; Where particulars of claim are served out of the jurisdiction any statement as to the period for responding to the claim contained in any of the forms required by rule 7.8 to accompany the particulars of claim must specify the period prescribed under rule 6.35 or by the order permitting service out of the jurisdiction under rule 6.37(5).</p>
<h3><a id="id7.1"></a>Period for responding to an application notice</h3>
<p><strong>7.1</strong>&nbsp; Where an application notice is served out of the jurisdiction, the period for responding is 7 days less than the number of days listed in the Table.</p>
<h3><a id="id7.2"></a>Further information</h3>
<p><strong>7.2</strong>&nbsp; Further information concerning service out of the jurisdiction can be obtained from the Foreign Process Section, Room E02, Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London WC2A 2LL (telephone 020 7947 6691).<br/>
&nbsp;</p>
<h3>TABLE</h3>
<table style="width: 100%;" border="1">
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Place or country</th>
<th>number of days</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Afghanistan</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Albania</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Algeria</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Andorra</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Angola</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Anguilla</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Antigua and Barbuda</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Antilles (Netherlands)</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Argentina</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Armenia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ascension Island</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Australia</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Austria</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Azerbaijan</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Azores</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bahamas</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bahrain</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Balearic Islands</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bangladesh</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Barbados</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Belarus</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Belgium</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Belize</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Benin</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bermuda</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bhutan</td>
<td>28</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bolivia</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bosnia and Herzegovina</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Botswana</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Brazil</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>British Virgin Islands</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Brunei</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bulgaria</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Burkina Faso</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Burma</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Burundi</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cambodia</td>
<td>28</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cameroon</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Canada</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Canary Islands</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cape Verde</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Caroline Islands</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cayman Islands</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Central African Republic</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Chad</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Chile</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>China</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>China (Hong Kong)</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>China (Macau)</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>China (Taiwan)</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>China (Tibet)</td>
<td>34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Christmas Island</td>
<td>27</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cocos (Keeling) Islands</td>
<td>41</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Colombia</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Comoros</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Congo (formerly Congo Brazzaville or French Congo)</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Congo (Democratic Republic)</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Corsica</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Costa Rica</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Croatia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cuba</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cyprus</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Czech Republic</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Denmark</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Djibouti</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dominica</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dominican Republic</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>East Timor</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ecuador</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Egypt</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>El Salvador</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Equatorial Guinea</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Eritrea</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Estonia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ethiopia</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Falkland Islands and Dependencies</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Faroe Islands</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Fiji</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Finland</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>France</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>French Guyana</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>French Polynesia</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>French West Indies</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gabon</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gambia</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Georgia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Germany</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ghana</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gibraltar</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Greece</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Greenland</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Grenada</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Guatemala</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Guernsey</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Guinea</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Guinea-Bissau</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Guyana</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Haiti</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Holland (Netherlands)</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Honduras</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hungary</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Iceland</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>India</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Indonesia</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Iran</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Iraq</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ireland (Republic of)</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ireland (Northern)</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Isle of Man</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Israel</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Italy</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ivory Coast</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Jamaica</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Japan</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Jersey</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Jordan</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kazakhstan</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kenya</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kiribati</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Korea (North)</td>
<td>28</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Korea (South)</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kosovo</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kuwait</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kyrgyzstan</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Laos</td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Latvia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lebanon</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lesotho</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Liberia</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Libya</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Liechtenstein</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lithuania</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Luxembourg</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Macedonia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Madagascar</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Madeira</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Malawi</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Malaysia</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Maldives</td>
<td>26</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mali</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Malta</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mariana Islands</td>
<td>26</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Marshall Islands</td>
<td>32</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mauritania</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mauritius</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mexico</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Micronesia</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Moldova</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Monaco</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mongolia</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Montenegro</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Montserrat</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Morocco</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mozambique</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Namibia</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nauru</td>
<td>36</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nepal</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Netherlands</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nevis</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>New Caledonia</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>New Zealand</td>
<td>26</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>New Zealand Island Territories</td>
<td>50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nicaragua</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Niger (Republic of)</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nigeria</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Norfolk Island</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Norway</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Oman (Sultanate of)</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pakistan</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Palau</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Panama</td>
<td>26</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Papua New Guinea</td>
<td>26</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Paraguay</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Peru</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Philippines</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno Islands</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Poland</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Portugal</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Portuguese Timor</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Puerto Rico</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Qatar</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Reunion</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Romania</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Russia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rwanda</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sabah</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>St. Helena</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>St. Kitts and Nevis</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>St. Lucia</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>St. Pierre and Miquelon</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>St. Vincent and the Grenadines</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Samoa (U.S.A. Territory) (See also Western Samoa)</td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>San Marino</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sao Tome and Principe</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sarawak</td>
<td>28</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Saudi Arabia</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Scotland</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Senegal</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Serbia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Seychelles</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sierra Leone</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Singapore</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Slovakia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Slovenia</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Society Islands (French Polynesia)</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Solomon Islands</td>
<td>29</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Somalia</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>South Africa</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>South Georgia (Falkland Island Dependencies)</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>South Orkneys</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>South Shetlands</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Spain</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Spanish Territories of North Africa</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sri Lanka</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sudan</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Surinam</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Swaziland</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sweden</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Switzerland</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Syria</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Tajikistan</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Tanzania</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Thailand</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Togo</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Tonga</td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Trinidad and Tobago</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Tristan Da Cunha</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Tunisia</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Turkey</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Turkmenistan</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Turks &amp; Caicos Islands</td>
<td>31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Tuvalu</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Uganda</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ukraine</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>United Arab Emirates</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>United States of America</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Uruguay</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Uzbekistan</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Vanuatu</td>
<td>29</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Vatican City State</td>
<td>21</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Venezuela</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Vietnam</td>
<td>28</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Virgin Islands – U.S.A</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Wake Island</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Western Samoa</td>
<td>34</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Yemen (Republic of)</td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Zaire</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Zambia</td>
<td>23</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Zimbabwe</td>
<td>22</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h2><a id="idAnnex"></a>Annex</h2>
<p><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/contents/form_section_images/practice_directions/pd6b_pdf_eps/pd6b_ecreg2007.pdf" target="_blank">Service Regulation (Rule 6.41)</a> (PDF - opens in new window)</p>
</body></html>