<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PRACTICE DIRECTION – PROCEEDINGS UNDER ENACTMENTS RELATING TO EQUALITY</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PRACTICE DIRECTION – PROCEEDINGS UNDER ENACTMENTS RELATING TO EQUALITY</h1>
<div><h1 class="headingblock"><span class="title">PRACTICE
DIRECTION &ndash; PROCEEDINGS UNDER ENACTMENTS RELATING TO
EQUALITY</span></h1>
<div class="contentsBlock">
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup"><div class="pdsubgroup"><h2 class="sectionHeading">Scope and Interpretation</h2>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This Practice Direction applies to certain county court
proceedings under the enactments defined in paragraph 1.2.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In this Practice Direction &ndash;</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(1)</span> <span class="text">&lsquo;the 2006 Act&rsquo;
means the Equality Act 2006<sup><a name="backf1001" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/proceedings_under_enactments_equality#f1001" class="anchor">1</a></sup>;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(2)</span> <span class="text">&lsquo;the 2010 Act&rsquo;
means the Equality Act 2010<sup><a name="backf1002" href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/proceedings_under_enactments_equality#f1002" class="anchor">2</a></sup>;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(3)</span> <span class="text">&lsquo;the Commission&rsquo;
means the Commission for Equality and Human Rights;</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">1.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">For proceedings which relate to conduct before 1
October 2010, the Practice Direction on Proceedings Under Enactments Relating
to Discrimination applies.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup"><div class="pdsubgroup"><h2 class="sectionHeading">Commission to be given notice of claims</h2>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">2.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">When a claim under section 114 of the 2010 Act is
commenced, the claimant must give notice of the commencement of the proceedings
to the Commission and file a copy of that notice.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup"><div class="pdsubgroup"><h2 class="sectionHeading">Assessors</h2>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">3.</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Rule 35.15 has effect in relation to an assessor who is
to be appointed in proceedings under section 114 (7) of the 2010 Act.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup"><div class="pdsubgroup"><h2 class="sectionHeading">Exclusion of persons from certain proceedings</h2>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In a claim brought under section 114 of the 2010 Act
the court may, where it considers it expedient in the interests of national
security &ndash;</span></p>
<div class="subsection"><div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">exclude from all or part
of the proceedings &ndash;</span></p>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(i)</span> <span class="text">the
claimant;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(ii)</span> <span class="text">a representative of
the claimant;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(iii)</span> <span class="text">an
assessor;</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">permit a claimant or
representative who has been excluded to make a statement to the court before
the commencement of the proceedings, or the part of the proceedings, to which
the exclusion relates;</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(c)</span> <span class="text">take steps to keep secret
all or part of the reasons for its decision in the claim.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In this paragraph, a &lsquo;special advocate&rsquo;
means a person appointed under section 117(5) of the 2010 Act.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In proceedings to which this paragraph refers, where
the claimant or a representative of the claimant has been excluded from all or
part of the proceedings &ndash;</span></p>
<div class="subsection"><div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the court will inform the
Attorney General of the proceedings; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the Attorney General may
appoint a special advocate to represent the interests of a claimant in, or in
any part of, proceedings to which an exclusion under paragraph 4.1
relates.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">In exercise of its powers under paragraph 4.1(c), the
court may order the special advocate not to communicate (directly or
indirectly) with any person (including the excluded claimant) &ndash;</span></p>
<div class="subsection"><div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">on any matter discussed
or referred to; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">with regard to any
material disclosed,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">during or with reference to any part
of the proceedings to which an exclusion under paragraph 4.1
relates.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">4.5</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">Where the court makes an order referred to in paragraph
4.4 (or any similar order), the special advocate may apply for permission to
seek instructions from, or otherwise to communicate with an excluded person and
the court may make directions for that purpose.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdmaingroup"><div class="pdsubgroup"><h2 class="sectionHeading">Expenses of Commission</h2>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.1</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">This paragraph applies where the Commission has, in
respect of a claim, provided a claimant with assistance under section 28 of the
2006 Act.</span></p>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.2</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If the Commission claims a charge for expenses incurred
by it in providing such assistance, it must give notice of the claim to
&ndash;</span></p>
<div class="subsection"><div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">the court;
and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the
claimant,</span></p>
</div>
<p><span class="subSectionText">within 14 days of determination of
the proceedings.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.3</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">If notice is given to the court under paragraph 5.2
&ndash;</span></p>
<div class="subsection"><div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">money paid into court for
the benefit of the claimant that relates to costs and expenses must not be paid
out unless this is permitted by an order of the court; and</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">the court may order the
expenses incurred by the Commission to be assessed and paid as if they were
costs payable by claimant to own solicitor.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="pdsection"><h3><span class="sectionItemNo">5.4</span></h3>
<p><span class="text">The court may either &ndash;</span></p>
<div class="subsection"><div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(a)</span> <span class="text">make a summary assessment
of the expenses; or</span></p>
</div>
<div class="subsection">
<p><span class="subSectionNo">(b)</span> <span class="text">order detailed assessment
of the expenses by a costs officer.</span></p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="footnotes"><h2>Footnotes</h2>
<div class="footnote"><span class="footnoteNo">1. </span><span class="footnoteText">2006 c. 3.</span><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/proceedings_under_enactments_equality#backf1001" class="footnote"></a></div>
<div class="footnote"><span class="footnoteNo">2. </span><span class="footnoteText">2010 c.15.</span><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/rules/proceedings_under_enactments_equality#backf1002" class="footnote"></a></div>
</div>
</body></html>