<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 15 - DEFENCE AND REPLY</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 15 - DEFENCE AND REPLY</h1>
<a id="idBack-to-top"></a>
<p>Contents of this Part<br/></p>
<table border="1" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" width="100%">
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Title</th>
<th>Number</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.1">Part not to apply where claimant uses Part 8 procedure</a></td>
<td>Rule 15.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.2">Filing a defence</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;15.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.3">Consequence of not filing a defence</a></td>
<td>Rule 15.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.4">The period for filing a defence</a></td>
<td>Rule 15.4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.5">Agreement extending the period for filing a defence</a></td>
<td>Rule 15.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.6">Service of copy of defence</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;15.6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.7">Making a counterclaim</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;15.7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.8">Reply to defence</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;15.8</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.9">No statement of case after a reply to be filed without court’s permission</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;15.9</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.10">Claimant’s notice where defence is that money claimed has been paid</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;15.10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id15.11">Claim stayed if it is not defended or admitted</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;15.11</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>&nbsp;
<h3><a id="id15.1"></a>Part not to apply where claimant uses Part 8 procedure</h3>
<p><strong>15.1</strong>&nbsp; This Part does not apply where the claimant uses the procedure set out in Part 8 (alternative procedure for claims).</p>
<h3><strong><a id="id15.2"></a></strong>Filing a defence</h3>
<p><strong>15.2</strong>&nbsp; A defendant who wishes to defend all or part of a claim must file a defence.</p>
<p>(Part 14 contains further provisions which apply where the defendant admits a claim)</p>
<h3><a id="id15.3"></a>Consequence of not filing a defence</h3>
<p><strong>15.3</strong>&nbsp; If a defendant fails to file a defence, the claimant may obtain default judgment if Part 12 allows it.</p>
<h3><a id="id15.4"></a>The period for filing a defence</h3>
<p><strong>15.4</strong></p>
<p>(1) The general rule is that the period for filing a defence is –</p>
<p>(a) 14 days after service of the particulars of claim; or</p>
<p>(b) if the defendant files an acknowledgment of service under Part 10, 28 days after service of the particulars of claim.</p>
<p>(Rule 7.4 provides for the particulars of claim to be contained in or served with the claim form or served within 14 days of service of the claim form)</p>
<p>(2) The general rule is subject to the following rules –</p>
<p>(a) rule 6.35 (which specifies how the period for filing a defence is calculated where the claim form is served out of the jurisdiction under rule 6.32 or 6.33);</p>
<p>(b) rule 11 (which provides that, where the defendant makes an application disputing the court’s jurisdiction, the defendant need not file a defence before the hearing);</p>
<p>(c) rule 24.4(2) (which provides that, if the claimant applies for summary judgment before the defendant has filed a defence, the defendant need not file a defence before the summary judgment hearing); and</p>
<p>(d) rule 6.12(3) (which requires the court to specify the period for responding to the particulars of claim when it makes an order under that rule).</p>
<h3><a id="id15.5"></a>Agreement extending the period for filing a defence</h3>
<p><strong>15.5</strong></p>
<p>(1) The defendant and the claimant may agree that the period for filing a defence specified in rule 15.4 shall be extended by up to 28 days.</p>
<p>(2) Where the defendant and the claimant agree to extend the period for filing a defence, the defendant must notify the court in writing.</p>
<h3><a id="id15.6"></a>Service of copy of defence</h3>
<p><strong>15.6</strong>&nbsp; A copy of the defence must be served on every other party.</p>
<p>(Part 16 sets out what a defence must contain)</p>
<h3><a id="id15.7"></a>Making a counterclaim</h3>
<p><strong>15.7</strong>&nbsp; Part 20 applies to a defendant who wishes to make a counterclaim.</p>
<h3><a id="id15.8"></a>Reply to defence</h3>
<p><strong>15.8</strong>&nbsp; If a claimant files a reply to the defence, the claimant must</p>
<p>(a) file the reply with a directions questionnaire; and</p>
<p>(b) serve the reply on the other parties at the same time as it is filed.</p>
<p>(Rule 26.3(1) and (6) requires the parties to file directions questionnaires and specifies the period for doing so).</p>
<p>(Part 22 requires a reply to be verified by a statement of truth)<br/></p>
<h3><a id="id15.9"></a>No statement of case after a reply to be filed without court’s permission</h3>
<p><strong>15.9</strong>&nbsp; A party may not file or serve any statement of case after a reply without the permission of the court.</p>
<h3><a id="id15.10"></a>Claimant’s notice where defence is that money claimed has been paid</h3>
<p><strong>15.10</strong></p>
<p>(1) Where –</p>
<p>(a) the only claim (apart from a claim for costs and interest) is for a specified amount of money; and</p>
<p>(b) the defendant states in his defence that he has paid to the claimant the amount claimed,</p>
<p>the court will send notice to the claimant requiring him to state in writing whether he wishes the proceedings to continue.</p>
<p>(2) When the claimant responds, he must serve a copy of his response on the defendant.</p>
<p>(3) If the claimant fails to respond under this rule within 28 days after service of the court’s notice on him the claim shall be stayed<a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary"><sup>(GL)</sup></a>.</p>
<p>(4) Where a claim is stayed under this rule any party may apply for the stay<a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary"><sup>(GL)</sup></a> to be lifted.</p>
<p>(If the claimant files notice under this rule that he wishes the proceedings to continue, the procedure which then follows is set out in Part 26)</p>
<h3><a id="id15.11"></a>Claim stayed if it is not defended or admitted</h3>
<p><strong>15.11</strong></p>
<p>(1) Where –</p>
<p>(a) at least 6 months have expired since the end of the period for filing a defence specified in rule 15.4;</p>
<p>(b) no defendant has served or filed an admission or filed a defence or counterclaim; and</p>
<p>(c) the claimant has not entered or applied for judgment under Part 12 (default judgment), or Part 24 (summary judgment),</p>
<p>the claim shall be stayed<sup><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary">(GL)</a></sup>.</p>
<p>(2) Where a claim is stayed<a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary"><sup>(GL)</sup></a> under this rule any party may apply for the stay to be lifted.</p>
</body></html>