<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 17 - AMENDMENTS TO STATEMENTS OF CASE</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 17 - AMENDMENTS TO STATEMENTS OF CASE</h1>
<p>Contents of this Part<br></p>
<h3>Amendments to statements of case</h3>
<p><strong>17.1</strong></p>
<p>(1) A party may amend his statement of case at any time before it has been served on any other party.</p>
<p>(2) If his statement of case has been served, a party may amend it only –</p>
<p>(a) with the written consent of all the other parties; or</p>
<p>(b) with the permission of the court.</p>
<p>(3) If a statement of case has been served, an application to amend it by removing, adding or substituting a party must be made in accordance with rule 19.4.</p>
<p>(Part 22 requires amendments to a statement of case to be verified by a statement of truth unless the court orders otherwise)</p>
<h3>Power of court to disallow amendments made without permission</h3>
<p><strong>17.2</strong></p>
<p>(1) If a party has amended his statement of case where permission of the court was not required, the court may disallow the amendment.</p>
<p>(2) A party may apply to the court for an order under paragraph (1) within 14 days of service of a copy of the amended statement of case on him.</p>
<h3>Amendments to statements of case with the permission of the court</h3>
<p><strong>17.3</strong></p>
<p>(1) Where the court gives permission for a party to amend his statement of case, it may give directions as to –</p>
<p>(a) amendments to be made to any other statement of case; and</p>
<p>(b) service of any amended statement of case.</p>
<p>(2) The power of the court to give permission under this rule is subject to –</p>
<p>(a) rule 19.1 (change of parties – general);</p>
<p>(b) rule 19.4 (special provisions about adding or substituting parties after the end of a relevant limitation period<sup>(<a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary">GL</a>)</sup>); and</p>
<p>(c) rule 17.4 (amendments of statement of case after the end of a relevant limitation period).</p>
<h3>Amendments to statements of case after the end of a relevant limitation period</h3>
<p><strong>17.4</strong></p>
<p>(1) This rule applies where –</p>
<p>(a) a party applies to amend his statement of case in one of the ways mentioned in this rule; and</p>
<p>(b) a period of limitation has expired under –</p>
<p>(i) the Limitation Act 1980<a href="#fn1"><sup>1</sup></a>;</p>
<p>(ii) the Foreign Limitation Periods Act 1984<sup><a href="#fn2">2</a></sup>; or</p>
<p>(iii) any other enactment which allows such an amendment, or under which such an amendment is allowed.</p>
<p>(2) The court may allow an amendment whose effect will be to add or substitute a new claim, but only if the new claim arises out of the same facts or substantially the same facts as a claim in respect of which the party applying for permission has already claimed a remedy in the proceedings.</p>
<p>(3) The court may allow an amendment to correct a mistake as to the name of a party, but only where the mistake was genuine and not one which would cause reasonable doubt as to the identity of the party in question.</p>
<p>(4) The court may allow an amendment to alter the capacity in which a party claims if the new capacity is one which that party had when the proceedings started or has since acquired.</p>
<p>(Rule 19.5 specifies the circumstances in which the court may allow a new party to be added or substituted after the end of a relevant limitation period<sup><a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary">(GL)</a></sup>)</p>
<h4>Footnotes</h4>
<ol>
<li>1980 c.58. <a href="#text1">Back to text</a></li>
<li>1984 c.16. <a href="#text2">Back to text</a></li>
</ol>
</body></html>