<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">  <head>    <title>PART 24 - SUMMARY JUDGMENT</title>    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/>  </head>  <body>    <h1>PART 24 - SUMMARY JUDGMENT</h1>
<p><a id="idBack-to-top"></a>Contents of this Part</p>
<table border="0" cellpadding="0">
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Title</th>
<th>Number</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id24.1">Scope of this Part</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;24.1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id24.2">Grounds for summary judgment</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;24.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id24.3">Types of proceedings in which summary judgment is available</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;24.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id24.4">Procedure</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;24.4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id24.5">Evidence for the purposes of a summary judgment hearing</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;24.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><a href="#id24.6">Court’s powers when it determines a summary judgment application</a></td>
<td>Rule&nbsp;24.6</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3><a id="id24.1"></a>Scope of this Part</h3>
<p><strong>24.1</strong>&nbsp; This Part sets out a procedure by which the court may decide a claim or a particular issue without a trial.</p>
<p>(Part 53 makes special provision about summary disposal of defamation claims in accordance with the Defamation Act 1996)<a id="idtext1" href="#idfn1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>
<h3><a id="id24.2"></a>Grounds for summary judgment</h3>
<p><strong>24.2</strong>&nbsp; The court may give summary judgment against a claimant or defendant on the whole of a claim or on a particular issue if –</p>
<p>(a) it considers that –</p>
<p>(i) that claimant has no real prospect of succeeding on the claim or issue; or</p>
<p>(ii) that defendant has no real prospect of successfully defending the claim or issue; and</p>
<p>(b) there is no other compelling reason why the case or issue should be disposed of at a trial.</p>
<p>(Rule 3.4 makes provision for the court to strike out<a href="http://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-rules/civil/glossary"><sup>(GL)</sup></a> a statement of case or part of a statement of case if it appears that it discloses no reasonable grounds for bringing or defending a claim)</p>
<h3><a id="id24.3"></a>Types of proceedings in which summary judgment is available</h3>
<p><strong>24.3</strong></p>
<p>(1) The court may give summary judgment against a claimant in any type of proceedings.</p>
<p>(2) The court may give summary judgment against a defendant in any type of proceedings except –</p>
<p>(a) proceedings for possession of residential premises against –</p>
<p>(i) a mortgagor; or</p>
<p>(ii) a tenant or a person holding over after the end of his tenancy whose occupancy is protected within the meaning of the Rent Act 1977<sup><a href="#idfn2">2</a></sup> <a id="idtext2"></a>or the Housing Act 1988<a href="#idfn3"><sup>3</sup></a> <a id="idtext3"></a>and;</p>
<p>(b) proceedings for an admiralty claim in rem.</p>
<p>(c) Omitted</p>
<h3><a id="id24.4"></a>Procedure</h3>
<p><strong>24.4</strong></p>
<p>(1) A claimant may not apply for summary judgment until the defendant against whom the application is made has filed –</p>
<p>(a) an acknowledgement of service; or</p>
<p>(b) a defence,</p>
<p>unless –</p>
<p>(i) the court gives permission; or</p>
<p>(ii) a practice direction provides otherwise.</p>
<p>(Rule 10.3 sets out the period for filing an acknowledgment of service and rule 15.4 the period for filing a defence)</p>
<p>(1A) In civil proceedings against the Crown, as defined in rule 66.1(2), a claimant may not apply for summary judgment until after expiry of the period for filing a defence specified in rule 15.4.</p>
<p>(2) If a claimant applies for summary judgment before a defendant against whom the application is made has filed a defence, that defendant need not file a defence before the hearing.</p>
<p>(3) Where a summary judgment hearing is fixed, the respondent (or the parties where the hearing is fixed of the court’s own initiative) must be given at least 14 days’ notice of –</p>
<p>(a) the date fixed for the hearing; and</p>
<p>(b) the issues which it is proposed that the court will decide at the hearing.</p>
<p>(4) A practice direction may provide for a different period of notice to be given.</p>
<p>(Part 23 contains the general rules about how to make an application)</p>
<p>(Rule 3.3 applies where the court exercises its powers of its own initiative)</p>
<h3><a id="id24.5"></a>Evidence for the purposes of a summary judgment hearing</h3>
<p><strong>24.5</strong></p>
<p>(1) If the respondent to an application for summary judgment wishes to rely on written evidence at the hearing, he must –</p>
<p>(a) file the written evidence; and</p>
<p>(b) serve copies on every other party to the application,</p>
<p>at least 7 days before the summary judgment hearing.</p>
<p>(2) If the applicant wishes to rely on written evidence in reply, he must –</p>
<p>(a) file the written evidence; and</p>
<p>(b) serve a copy on the respondent,</p>
<p>at least 3 days before the summary judgment hearing.</p>
<p>(3) Where a summary judgment hearing is fixed by the court of its own initiative –</p>
<p>(a) any party who wishes to rely on written evidence at the hearing must –</p>
<p>(i) file the written evidence; and</p>
<p>(ii) unless the court orders otherwise, serve copies on every other party to the proceedings,</p>
<p>at least 7 days before the date of the hearing;</p>
<p>(b) any party who wishes to rely on written evidence at the hearing in reply to any other party’s written evidence must –</p>
<p>(i) file the written evidence in reply; and</p>
<p>(ii) unless the court orders otherwise serve copies on every other party to the proceedings,</p>
<p>at least 3 days before the date of the hearing.</p>
<p>(4) This rule does not require written evidence –</p>
<p>(a) to be filed if it has already been filed; or</p>
<p>(b) to be served on a party on whom it has already been served.</p>
<h3><a id="id24.6"></a>Court’s powers when it determines a summary judgment application</h3>
<p><strong>24.6</strong>&nbsp; When the court determines a summary judgment application it may –</p>
<p>(a) give directions as to the filing and service of a defence;</p>
<p>(b) give further directions about the management of the case.</p>
<p>(Rule 3.1(3) provides that the court may attach conditions when it makes an order)</p>
<h4>Footnotes</h4>
<ol>
<li><a id="idfn1"></a>1196c.31. <a href="#idtext1">Back to text</a></li>
<li><a id="idfn2"></a>1977 c.42. <a href="#idtext2">Back to text</a></li>
<li><a id="idfn3"></a>1988 c.50. <a href="#idtext3">Back to text</a></li>
</ol>
</body></html>